Scientists have found the remains of a new type of tyrannosaur dinosaur on a Chinese construction site. The dinosaur nicknamed Pinocchio rex, had a very long face, a row of horns on the top of its head and a lighter more agile body. The remains were dug up by scientists from Edinburgh University, UK. Researchers think 66 million years ago, lots of different types of tyrannosaur lived in Asia, hunting different prey. The snout of the Pinocchio was 35% longer than any other animal of its size. It was much smaller and lighter than the T rex at about 9 ft tall. Scientists believe that they would have had different hunting techniques and wouldn't have been in direct competition with the T rex. Here's Dr Steve Brusatte from the University of Edinburgh, UK. He was one of the experts who identified the dinosaur. Hear him answering questions about this 'one in a million' find.
Four little African lion cubs took the plunge at a zoo in Washington in America. It was their first swimming lesson and although they seemed a bit surprised they soon got the hang of it. It's zoo rules that all lions, tigers and other big cats learn to swim to keep them safe when they're just weeks old. See a cub making a splash.
More than 100 of the world's best female cyclists are taking part in the first ever Women's Tour of Britain, which starts today. It's set to be the biggest ever women's cycling race in the country. Competitors will set off from Oundle in Northamptonshire and finish in Bury St Edmunds in Suffolk on Sunday. The race is made up of five stages taking place over five days and some of Britain's top cyclists, like Laura Trott and Dani King, will take part.
Olga Kotelko is a 95-year-old athletics champion with more than 30 world records to her name.The Canadian became the oldest recorded female indoor sprinter, high jumper, long jumper and triple jumper at the World Masters Athletics Championships this year.She took up athletics when she was 77 years old and has won more than 750 gold medals!
Tennis superstar Roger Federer and his wife are celebrating the arrival of another set of twins. Federer said he was incredibly happy to welcome the two boys Leo and Lenny. He also has twin daughters Myla and Charlene, who were born in 2009, so now they are the perfect family for mixed doubles. Roger Federer pulled out of this week's Madrid Masters tournament to be with his family.
Super sprinter, Usain Bolt, has had a signed pair of his running shoes stolen. The shoes were framed with a photo of the Olympic gold medallist. He had worn them when he set a world record in 2009 and they were on display in London. Usain Bolt has appealed for the shoes to be returned. He said: "I know u love me..but please why u had to go stealing that signed Usain Bolt spikes ..I know u going to return it. Right?"
Drivers in America had a delay in their journey as a family - of geese - went for a stroll on a busy road. Police had to close down part of the road near the city of Chicago to guide the geese across to safety, while hundreds of cars drove past them.
A small plane has crashed into a house in America, but luckily nobody was inside and the pilot only received a few cuts and bruises. The pilot was trying to fly a banner over a baseball game in the state of Colorado when the plane's engine started having problems.No one was inside the house and the pilot managed to escape. He even tried to put the fire out before fire crews arrived.
A pair of lion cubs have been delighting long lines of visitors at a safari park in Japan. The two cubs, one male and one female, can only be shown to visitors for a short time before they start biting. And once they become big enough to fend for themselves they'll be introduced into the pride of lions that live in the park.
Cartoon family The Simpsons have had a Lego makeover. Marge, Homer, Bart, Lisa and Maggie will all be Lego versions for a new episode. An advert for the new look edition of the show has been released and it will be shown later in the year.
The World Cup starts this summer and while there's a lot of excitement around it, there's also concerns that the hot climate will affect players. One issue that's causing a bit of a stir is the timing of some of the matches. Certain matches will kick off around lunchtime in Brazil, so that audiences in Europe will be able to watch the matches on TV. But the temperature, at that time of day, can be way over 30C and some people are worried it'll be too hot for the players. Ayshah's got more on this.
A design team have built a tank on wheels that gives fish a chance to 'drive' around on land. The smart tank has a camera that detects the fish's movements and makes it travel in the direction the fish is swimming. Thomas De Wolf from Studio Diip, the company that invented it, says he wanted to bring fun back to technology. The company are working on this version of the tank to protect the fish from becoming stressed if they go too fast.
Three million euros (£2.5m) is being spent to help protect wild hamsters facing extinction in France. The Great Hamster of Alsace, has been on the decline since farmers started planting crops like maize which the hamsters can't eat. Population figures fell in 2001 to 1,167 and dropped to an all time low in 2007 to just 161. The plan is for farmers to grow some of the hamsters' favoured food alfalfa as well as their other crops.The aim is to bring the wild hamster back up to 1500 in five years.France launched the plan two years after a top court in Europe told them they were not doing enough. Authorities were keen to make changes that would protect the hamster while also letting the farmers grow profitable crops. The Great Hamster of Alsace. The hamster has a brown and white face, black belly, white paws, round ears and can grow up to 25cm (10 inches) long. It spends half of the year hibernating and lives mostly alone. This type of hamster lives in only 14 zones in Alsace. It has been a protected species since 1993. Lack of food and loss of habitat have been blamed for the fall in their numbers.
Treasure hunters have recovered almost £800,000 worth of gold from a ship that sank more than 150 years ago. The SS Central America sank in the Atlantic Ocean during a hurricane in 1857. The wreckage was discovered in 1988 and gold worth millions of pounds was found then but the recovery stopped after legal arguments between the people involved. Explorers will now try to recover more of the gold on the boat when it sank. The ship's thought to have had 21 tons of gold on board when it sank - that's about the weight of four elephants! Only around 5% of the ship's cargo was investigated when the ship was first found in the 1980s. Such a lot of gold was lost when the SS Central America sank it sparked the Panic of 1857, an economic crisis that lasted several years.
An international group of doctors has warned the spread of the disease polio has become a global health emergency. Polio worst affects young children, but it can be prevented with a simple vaccine and is almost never found in the UK. It had been virtually stamped out worldwide, but in a few countries in Asia, Africa and the Middle East there has been a rise in recent years. One of the worst affected countries is Pakistan - it has had 54 cases of polio so far this year. This is up from last year when there were 93 cases over the whole year. Though the numbers may seem small, the World Health Organisation is calling for urgent action. It wants the governments of these countries to use vaccines to stop the disease from spreading. What is polio? Polio is a virus which affects the brain and spinal cord. There is no cure for the disease but it can be prevented by vaccination. People of any age can get polio but it mainly affects children under five. It spreads through food and water contaminated by human waste . Symptoms include fever, being sick and having a stiff neck. Most people infected only have mild symptoms but for some it can be very serious and lead to them being paralysed.
Mark Selby staged a remarkable comeback to win the snooker World Championship. Mark was the runner-up in 2007 and it looked like he might miss out again when he was 10-5 behind. But then things turned around for him and he managed to beat five-time champ Ronnie O'Sullivan 18-14. It was an impressive win as Ronnie had never been beaten in a world final before. Mark's victory means he returns to the top of the world rankings. He dedicated his win to his late father, who died when he was 16.
Identical twins are trekking across Greenland wearing different outfits for an experiment about how cold conditions affect the body. Hugo and Ross Turner from Devon are making the journey together but will have very different experiences. Hugo has the luxury of wearing modern protective clothing. But brother Ross is wear the type of outfit used by polar explorer Sir Ernest Shackleton 100 years ago and will eat the type of food he had then too. They are raising money for Spinal Research but are also being monitored by scientists from King's College London. As they are twins they are as similar as two people can be - so this helps scientists test how different clothing and food affect the body in the same extreme Greenland conditions.
Have you ever dreamed of going down a 90 meter long water slide? Well around 300 lucky people in Bristol have been given the chance to do just that. Roads have been closed in the city centre to make way for the spectacular structure. It's made using plastic sheets, hay bales, water and washing-up liquid. Organiser Luke Jerram said: "I wanted to close a road - if you look at photographs in the 1900's you see these beautiful empty streets with all the kids playing out - it's an extraordinary thing and all that has been taken away.""I'm happy to take over a street, and this slide is an architectural intervention really." Mr Jerram said he was told by the council on Thursday his "Park-and-Slide" could "definitely" go ahead. The project was first announced in March by the Bristol-based artist, and it's hoped to be repeated every first Sunday of the month.
A duckling has been adopted by a chicken at a school in Lincolnshire. Lucky the duckling thinks Victoria the hen is its mum. It all started when a duck at Fiskerton Primary School tried to hatch 15 eggs but ten got broken. Broody school hen Victoria Peckham was asked to sit on the remaining five eggs. After 28 days one of them hatched and that duckling was Lucky. Victoria took the little duckling under her wing and it is doing well.
The elephants at Taman Safari in Indonesia produce a lot of poo, about 2.5 tonnes of it every day. Keepers there have come up with an interesting way of recycling it by turning it into paper. It wouldn't work with all types of poo but elephant dung contains lots of undigested fibres which can be reused. They sell the poo paper in the gift shop and say it is eco-friendly, perfectly safe, and reminds people about elephant conservation. So how do you make paper out of poo? The dung is washed and boiled to kill all the germs and get rid of the smell; waste paper is then added to the softened fibres; the paste is blended and flattened into sheets; once dry it is ready to use; 100 kilograms of poo will make around 250 sheets of paper.
Engineers have designed and built a bionic kangaroo which is able to jump 40cm in the air then land again. A team of German engineers have designed the animal inspired robot which is about 1 metre tall. It has the technology to jump, then recover its balance and have enough energy ready for the next jump. The robot has been made to excite and inspire more young engineers to look into what we can learn from animals in the future. In the clip above Elias Knubben, who helped design the kangaroo, explains the difficulties of building the robot.
A Priest in Ireland has surprised a bride and groom at their wedding - by breaking into song. Father Ray Kelly from Oldcastle, County Meath, started singing his pitch-perfect version of Leonard Cohen's Hallelujah, after the wedding band finished playing. The bride and groom had no idea that he was going to sing. The lyrics were changed especially for the newlyweds, starting with "We join together here today, to help two people on their way."
A woman from Lancashire has travelled 300 miles to London - on a mobility scooter! Tracey Vinyard's journey from her home in Thornton-Cleveleys took her two weeks to finish. During the trip she had to sleep under a bush, had her mobile phone stolen and was questioned by police. Tracey did the trip for charity and to highlight the problems faced by people with mobility problems.
The blobfish has won a public vote to be crowned the world's ugliest animal. The grumpy-looking creature lives deep in the ocean near south-eastern Australia and spends its life "bobbing around" in the dark. It is often killed by fishing nets - so the Ugly Animal Preservation Society held the competition to draw attention to endangered animals that aren't cute.
TV presenter Simon Watt said: "We only protect the animals that we relate to because they're cute, like pandas." One of the other animals up for the award was the kakapo - the only parrot in the world that can't fly. The birds are killed by mammals - and humans - and according to the International Union for Conservation of Nature there were just 126 remaining in the wild in 2012.
Four out of five rare monkeys, stolen from Blackpool Zoo on Tuesday, have been found and returned. But Lancashire Police said the baby monkey was still missing after the others were found on a doorstep in Brighouse, West Yorkshire on Friday evening. Thieves had taken the rare monkeys from their enclosures after cutting a holes in the fences. The zoo were worried about their welfare as they're extremely rare.
If your friends are too easy to beat at board games, how about challenging this robot? A new research centre in Edinburgh is hoping to develop the robots of the future. They could be used for anything from surgery to security... but this one's been trained to play Connect 4. And it's really tough to beat because the robot can work out every move it needs to win.
Snoozing sunbathers in Russia had a surprise awakening on Sunday when a military hovercraft ran onto the beach. The Russian 'zubr' landed on a popular beach near the Russian town of Kaliningrad. The Russian Defence Ministry said the ship's crew were carrying out a training exercise. According to Russian newspapers, the ministry said it was not sure what people were doing on the beach on a warm day in August. Luckily nobody was hurt during the exercise.
Two 9-year-old girls broke a world record on Wednesday to become the world's youngest formation wing walkers. Cousins Rose and Flame took to the skies over Gloucestershire on two biplanes from the 1940s. They planned their daredevil walk to raise awareness of muscular dystrophe. They flew in formation where the two aircraft are just metres apart, and the pilot of one of the planes was their granddad, Vic. "It's quite scary when you take off but if you like mega funfair rides I think you'll find the take-off really cool," said Rose. "The best bit was probably taking off or doing the Superwoman pose." Her cousin Flame said: "It was really fun and really windy. The best bit is just being in the air."
A massive sinkhole in the American state of Louisiana has sucked in land and whole trees. A sinkhole appears when the ground gives way and everything above it falls into the resulting hole. Rocks in the ground can be weakened by rainfall until they crumble or collapse and the sinkhole forms. Sinkholes sometimes appear in roads. Sinkholes like the one in Louisiana are very rare and the emergency services are monitoring it. Homes in the area are not thought to be in any danger.
A dolphin has been snapped frolicking in the River Dee, in the town of Saltney in North Wales. It was first seen by the public on Monday in the nearby town of Connah's Quay, but then swam upstream. A nature charity is keeping tabs on the animal. It became stranded briefly on Tuesday afternoon after turning to make its way to Flint and back towards the sea. It is rare for dolphins to be seen in the River Dee but a pair of porpoises were reported nearby eight years ago. Volunteer animal medics said the mammal was heading downstream towards the sea, but still has some way to go. They had to roll it back into the water after it became stranded for a short time. 'No need to intervene' "Sometimes it goes back upstream for a bit and then turns round, but it seems to be okay," said local vet Phillipa Mahon, who has been following the dolphin. Stephen Marsh, from charity British Divers Marine Life Rescue, said: "The reports from the public said it was swimming quite a lot, clicking quite a lot, so it's probably feeding. "Unless it gets into difficulty we don't really need to intervene. "We will monitor it and hope it goes back out to sea."
This isn't the latest Doctor Who villain - it's one of the world's earliest humanoid robots! Gygan was revealed back in 1957 by an Italian engineer. The robot was remote controlled and could walk, crush cans and even ballroom dance! Gygan is now up for auction and could raise over £12,000. A massive rocking horse will cost between £25,000 and £40,000! Other items in the Christie's Out of the Ordinary auction include a triceratops skull, a giant chair and an oversized rocking horse.
Check out this breathtaking stunt taking place 2,000 metres above Illinois, USA on Tuesday. Daredevil Anthony Martin was pushed out of a plane in handcuffs, chained to the inside of a locked yellow box. He escaped from his shackles whilst plummeting to Earth at 130mph. The 47-year-old thrill-seeker then deployed his parachute to glide safely back to the ground.Anthony said: "I didn't feel any force, but what I felt was lot a of jostling." Anthony first performed the skydive escape in 1988. Everyone involved in the stunt landed safely - but don't try it at home!
'Fastest' rollercoaster opens in Los Angeles. A new rollercoaster which claims to be the fastest and tallest looping ride in the world has opened at a theme park in Los Angeles. The Full Throttle ride in California has a 160 foot loop that takes riders upside down twice and a section that takes thrill-seekers backwards. The attraction, which opened on Saturday, has a top speed going into the loops of 70 miles per hour. The theme park now has whopping 18 rollercoasters.
Designers in Japan have built a robot which they hope to send to space. The talking robot, called Kirobo, has been developed to help astronauts working whilst in orbit. Yorichika Nishijima, who worked on the project, said: "Russians were the first to go to space. Americans were the first to land on the moon. "I want Japan to be the first to send a communication robot astronaut to space," If all goes to plan Kirobo will be joining the other astronauts on the International Space Station in August.
A posh toilet that washes your bottom could be hijacked by pranksters, security experts say. Satis toilets have a built-in wash nozzle that is activated by a smartphone app - but anybody with the app can activate any of the toilets. Pranksters could squirt water at your bottom whilst you're on the toilet! The Satis toilet can also be diamond-studded "A practical joker might be able to trick his neighbours into thinking his toilet is possessed," said security expert Graham Cluley. Spending 380,000 pennies. Satis toilets cost about £3,800 and also have a built-in music player, perfume spray and bum-dryer! But the Bluetooth password for the toilet can't be changed, so anybody with the app can activate the loo's features remotely. Luckily Bluetooth only has a short range so a prankster would need to be fairly close to the toilet to unleash such mischief. Graham told the BBC there were unlikely to be serious consequences from the toilet's flaw. "It's hard to imagine how serious hardened cybercriminals would be interested in this security hole," said Graham.
An extremely rare Nintendo game is expected to sell for over £3,000 in an online auction. The cartridge is called Nintendo World Championships and features short versions of three games - Super Mario, Tetris and Rad Racer. The cartridge was never available in shops. Only 116 copies were ever made, for a gaming contest in 1990. The game was designed for the NES console A bid of £3,000 has already been made and experts say it's likely to fetch more. Sadly the cartridge is in poor condition. The label has been ripped and somebody has written "Mario" on it. In 2011 a copy of the same game sold at a charity auction for £6,600 - but it was in better condition.
Popular smartphone game Flappy Bird has been deleted from mobile app stores and is no longer available to download. The game was withdrawn from Apple's app store and Google Play on Sunday by its creator Dong Nguyen. Flappy Bird has been downloaded more than 50 million times, making it this year's most popular mobile game so far. Mr Nguyen said: "I can call Flappy Bird a success of mine. But it also ruins my simple life. So now I hate it." Flappy Bird was a very difficult game and many users complained that it was too addictive. Mr Nguyen had expressed concern on Twitter saying some gamers "are overusing it."
Mobile phones could be made completely waterproof thanks to a new kind of nano technology. It works by covering your phone with a special nano layer that is thinner than a single strand of hair. The nano coating is so good that it can even prevent a tissue from turning to mush when it's dipped in a jug of liquid. It was revealed at the Consumer Electronics Show (CES) in Las Vegas, in America.
Bitcoin is a new way of paying for things that is gaining popularity. This guide explains how it works. What is Bitcoin? Bitcoin is a new type of money that is completely virtual. It's like an online version of cash. You can use it to buy products and services, but not many shops accept Bitcoin yet. The physical Bitcoins you see in photos are a novelty. They would be worthless without the private codes printed inside them. How does Bitcoin work? Each Bitcoin is basically a computer file which is stored in a 'digital wallet' app on a smartphone or computer. People can send Bitcoins (or part of one) to your digital wallet, and you can send Bitcoins to other people. Every single transaction is recorded in a public list called the blockchain. This makes it possible to trace the history of Bitcoins so people can't spend coins they do not own, make copies or undo transactions. How do people get Bitcoins? There are three main ways people get Bitcoins. You can buy Bitcoins using 'real' money. At the moment one Bitcoin costs about £500. You can sell things and let people pay you with Bitcoins. Or they can be created using a computer. How are new Bitcoins created? In order for the Bitcoin system to work, people can make their computer process transactions for everybody. The computers are made to work out incredibly difficult sums. Occasionally they are rewarded with a Bitcoin for the owner to keep. People set up powerful computers just to try and get Bitcoins. This is called mining. But the sums are becoming more and more difficult to stop too many Bitcoins being generated. If you started mining now it could be years before you got a single Bitcoin. You could end up spending more money on electricity for your computer than the Bitcoin would be worth. Why are Bitcoins valuable? There are lots of things other than money which we consider valuable like gold and diamonds. The Aztecs used cocoa beans as money! Bitcoins are valuable because people are willing to exchange them for real goods and services, and even cash. Why do people want Bitcoins? Some people like the fact that Bitcoin is not controlled by the government or banks. That means there are no taxes or bank fees to pay, at least for now. People can also spend their Bitcoins fairly anonymously. Although all transactions are recorded, nobody would know which 'account number' was yours unless you told them. Is it secure? Every transaction is recorded publicly so it's very difficult to copy Bitcoins, make fake ones or spend ones you don't own. It is possible to lose your Bitcoin wallet or delete your Bitcoins and lose them forever. There have also been thefts from websites that let you store your Bitcoins remotely. At the moment the value of Bitcoins goes up and down a lot, so it's impossible to say whether it's safe to turn your 'real' money into Bitcoins.
Sony's Playstation 4, Nintendo's Wii U and Microsoft's Xbox One are the next generation of games consoles - but which one is best? Newsround puts the consoles head-to-head in this guide. What games are available? Xbox One and PS4: There are some early launch games coming to both consoles such as Fifa 14, Lego Marvel Superheroes and Just Dance 2014 but the big battle will be over which console releases the best exclusive games. Both consoles will only play new games though - Xbox 360 and PS3 discs won't work. Wii U: popular games like Just Dance 4 are already available - plus new versions of old favourites like Mario Kart are on the way. The Wii U can also play games designed for the original Wii. Can you lend games to your friends? A few years ago, being able to lend your games to friends was completely normal. Today, it's become a special feature! PS4 and Wii U: both let you buy second hand discs and share your discs with your friends, without restrictions. Xbox One: when first announced, Microsoft said there would be restrictions on second hand games. They changed their mind in June and will now let you share games on a disc. Games downloaded from the Xbox online store cannot be resold. Motion control All three consoles have their own version of motion control, where you play games by moving around the room. Xbox One: comes with an upgraded Kinect sensor that can identify individual fingers - even in the dark! PS4: also has an optical motion controller, similar to the Playstation Eye for the PS3. Wii U: the console doesn't have a camera system like Kinect and instead detects movement through the handheld controller. What do the graphics look like? Xbox One and PS4: both support the latest 4K displays which squeeze in more detail than HD for crisp, realistic pictures. At the moment, hardly anybody has a 4K compatible TV - but five years from now it could be a different story. Wii U: the console doesn't output 4K but it's not a big problem at the moment. The Wii U can still output full HD pictures and Nintendo's colourful, cartoony games look fine in HD. Can I watch films and TV on it? All three consoles can play movies over the internet - but you'll have to pay an additional subscription fee for film services. Xbox One and PS4: both can also play DVD and blu-ray movies in the optical drive. Wii U: can only play games in its optical drive, not movies. Can I browse the web on it? PS4 and Wii U: both come with a web browser for checking out websites - although the PS4 requires a subscription for online multiplayer games. Both will play games without an internet connection. Xbox One: can also browse the web. When it was first announced Microsoft said the Xbox One would need to connect to the internet at least once a day, to check you're not using illegal copies of games. They changed their mind on this in June 2013
Google have revealed they have bought seven robotics companies this year to help start work their own robot. It is not thought that the robot would be for sale to the public, but could be used to transport Google products. Google has recently begun a same-day grocery delivery service in America called Google Shopping Express. The New York times newspaper suggests Google's robots could be combined with its self-driving car research to help deliver goods to people's doors. If true, a Google robot could go up against Amazon's Prime Air Project, which will use helicopter drones to transport goods to its customers by air, as soon as the law allows it. Google won't discuss what kind of robot is being developed. The search giant's robotics project is based in Palo Alto, California, and will have an office in Japan - one of the world's leading nations in the field of robotics.
Sony's Playstation 4 went on sale at midnight on Friday, going head-to-head with Microsoft's Xbox One. Both machines have new features which Microsoft and Sony hope will convince gamers to back their console. We sent two gaming fans to find out which console they liked best.
Electronics company Sony says it could make SmartWigs, a fashion statement which would include helpful technology. They have applied for a patent, which would protect their invention in law so that no-one else can copy it. The wig would have sensors and cameras in it and could help navigate roads and even collect health information. Google and Samsung are among the tech giants who've recently launched wearable technology products, which some see as potentially big business. Wigs of the future. Although the product doesn't exist yet the company has big plans for its potential uses. The wig would go over the person's own hair and would hide all the technology, looking just like a normal wig. It could help monitor the wearer's health by taking their temperature, pulse and blood pressure. The company says the wigs would be fashionable as well as intelligent and help in all sorts of high tech ways. A Sony spokesperson said the device could also be used during presentations where a wearer can "move to the next presentation slide or back to the preceding presentation slide by simply raising his/her eyebrows".
Microsoft's latest games console the Xbox One will go on sale at midnight on Friday. The machine is out a week before Sony's PlayStation 4 reaches the UK. BBC reporter Marc Cieslak got his hands on the new console and put it to the test. What's new in the Xbox One? The Xbox one will be faster and more powerful than the Xbox 360, and will also have a blu-ray player for watching hi-definition movies. Radio 1 Newsbeat's Jonathan Blake takes us through some of the pros and cons of the new console. Will Xbox One beat the PS4? "Sony appears to have built the faster gaming machine, while Microsoft has built a system that might appeal to a broader audience," said technology journalist Anand Shimpi. "Anyone hoping for a clean sweep will likely be disappointed." Games journalist Michael French agreed that both consoles can survive, as long as they don't upset their fans. He said: "If platforms do start falling away it will likely be down to the manufacturers' own mistakes, rather than the actions of their rivals."
Electronics giant LG has launched its first curved smartphone called the G-Flex. Despite its name the G-Flex does not bend, but has a display which is curved from top to bottom. LG says the curve helps the phone follow the shape of your face, putting the microphone closer to your mouth. Why would anybody want a curved smartphone? "Curved smartphones are a bit of a gimmick at the moment," said Newsbeat technology reporter Jonathan Blake. He told Newsround: "They could be more comfortable to hold and companies claim the curved screen makes watching video more impressive." "But apart from that the phones are very similar to other smartphones." Tech rival Samsung revealed its own curved smartphone on 9 October. It wakes up from sleep mode when you rock it forwards. But both smartphones are only going on sale in South Korea for the time being. Jonathan said: "Technology companies need to keep up interest in their products and curved smartphones attract a lot of attention." "But the fact they're only available in one country at the moment suggests the companies making them are not convinced they will take off.
Apple has launched two brand new tablets - the iPad Air and the new iPad mini - but they come with hefty price tags. The iPad Air is thinner than the last iPad - at 7.5mm thick - and weighs 469g, about the weight of a small bottle of fizzy drink. Apple say it's the lightest full-sized tablet that you can buy. It's faster than the previous iPad and will be available to buy from the beginning of November. But while the Air is lighter, slimmer and faster than previous iPads, some critics are saying that it's not a massive leap forward - there aren't features that will revolutionise the tablet market. There's also a new version of the iPad mini which has got a better screen resolution than the last one. However Apple is still keeping its tablets at the pricier end of market, with the iPad Air starting at £399 and the iPad mini starting at £319.
Pokemon - it's one of the most successful games franchises on the planet. This weekend marks the release of the latest game on the Nintendo 3DS - Pokemon X and Y. We've bagged a rare chat with one of the main Pokemon developers Junichi Masuda all the way from Japan. He has worked on every Pokemon game since the very first and even came up with the game's iconic soundtrack.
Blackberry has resumed its roll-out of the free BBM messaging app for Android and Apple devices. Last month's initial launch got delayed at the last minute after a leaked version of the app caused problems. Now the software is now available to download from Google Play, Apple's App Store and some Samsung App Stores. But users have had to register an email address after downloading the app and then wait in line until they were told they could begin using it. The company said that "in just seven hours [following the leak], about one million Android users were using the unreleased version of BBM for Android", which caused "issues" for the launch. BBM started off as a free instant messaging service for Blackberry phones, but now offers more features including audio messages, photomessaging and video calls.
The world's best-selling smartphone maker Samsung has revealed its first curved smartphone. The Galaxy Round has a large 5.7 inch display which is slightly rounded. Samsung says the curved screen will help people use some of the features on the phone more easily. Rival phone manufacturer LG say it will make its own curved phones next year. The Galaxy Round will initially be launched only in South Korea. The phone is very different to the curvy prototype Samsung revealed in November 2012.
Meet Atlas and WildCat - two amazing robots with the ability to balance. They're the creation of US robotics company Boston Dynamics. Atlas can walk across rough ground with ease, and even balance on one leg while being hit from the side by a demolition ball. And four-legged WildCat can gallop at 16 miles per hour. The robots have been developed for a competition and could one day be used in emergency rescue situations.
A 15-year-old from the US has created a series of amazing pictures showing tiny figures in real landscapes. Zev Hoover wanted to improve his photo editing skills so starting the little folks project. He uses real photos of himself and his sister in the natural world. He shrinks the figures down to make the photos more unusual and magical. He's had lots of positive comments about the images after he posted them online. Hear him talk about what inspires him.
The UK Space Agency has launched a competition for children to design a space meal. The winning designer will work will celebrity chef Heston Blumenthal to make their meal for British astronaut Major Tim Peake.Ayshah's been speaking to Libby Jackson from the agency about the sort of things they eat at the moment and get some tips about the sort of thing they are looking for.
Record set as twins meet 78 YEARS after being separated. Twin sisters have been reunited 78 years after being separated, the longest gap on record according to Guinness World Records. Elizabeth and Ann grew up in different countries after their mum gave Ann up for adoption and moved to America. Ann didn't even know she had a sister until recently. Now after all this time the two have finally met. Check out the moment the sisters saw each other for the first time.
'Unbeatable' air hockey robot invented in Japan. Japanese engineers have built a robot that can play air hockey better than humans. Researchers at Chiba University's Namiki Laboratory gave the robot two high-speed cameras allowing it to see things in super-slow motion. This isn't the first robot that can play air hockey but researchers say their gadget is the first to be able to change its playing style to make the game more interesting. So the robot can choose to attack or defend depending on the way the game is going. It's been built as an artificial playing partner but it doesn't sound like it would be much of a fair game!
Cats and dogs aren't normally best friends but this pair of pets have become inseparable. The dog wearing sunglasses is called Wang Cai, and the cat riding on it's back is named Mi Mi. The unlikely duo have become local celebrities in Yunnan Province in the southwest of China. Every time they take a walk down the street large crowds gathering to see them. The animals' owner says the pair get along just like brother and sister!
A schoolboy in Hertfordshire has made an Iron Man suit that's getting the movies' fans excited. Seventeen-year-old Archie spent 300 hours creating the costume for a school technology project. Archie taught himself how to make it out of fibreglass and foam and now says it's inspired him to work in costume design when he's older. The suit is so realistic that Iron Man fans have been asking him to make replica suits for them too.
With a pumpkin for a drum and turnips for trumpets, a group of musicians set up a vegetable orchestra in the middle of Spain's capital Madrid on Monday. Visiting members of the Vienna Vegetable Orchestra carved their instruments using goods from the San Miguel market. They then put on a special performance to mark the market's 100th birthday. "The vegetables have to be fresh," Ulrich Troyer, one of the musicians said. "We basically work with all kinds of vegetables," he added. After the concert, the vegetables were prepared for the Madrid audience to eat. "Some groups do encores at the end," said Sandra Walkenhofer, the band's manager. "We do vegetables and soup."
Two mile long bridge blown up in controlled explosion. A bridge has been blown up in China to make way for a new longer highway. Explosives were put along the bridge then set off in a chain. The Dunyang highway viaduct collapsed after the demolition in Wuhan, Hubei province. The two mile long bridge is the longest ever to be blown up in China. It was difficult to destroy safely because it was near homes, wires and gas pipes.
Musician Alain Roche reached the high notes by performing a piano concert - while hanging off a crane! It was all part of festivities to mark the re-opening of a museum in Geneva, Switzerland. Alain played to crowds for about an hour while he and his piano were suspended in the air by a crane. It's thought 1500 people watched the spectacle.
An airport in the town Lukla, Nepal, is known as one of the scariest airports in the world. The town is where climbers begin their hike to Mount Everest base camp and is busy right now as climbers leave the mountain, after all climbing was cancelled for the rest of the year. The runway on the airport has a very steep sloping fall so small planes need to be flying at top speed to take off. Landing the plane is as difficult as setting off, with a thin landing strip to aim for. The BBC's Yogita Limaye sent this report.
All climbing on Mount Everest has been cancelled for the rest of 2014 over safety fears. A deadly avalanche on 18 April killed 16 Sherpa mountain guides - the worst accident in Everest's history. It sparked a big row between Nepal's government and the Sherpas over safety conditions, and how much they're paid. The Sherpas were angry at how much the government makes from foreign visitors climbing Everest: they believe they should get a bigger share of the money. They also wanted more compensation for the families of the guides who died, and they refused to climb out of respect for the dead, and because they were worried about the possibility of more avalanches. A week after the accident, climbers began to leave the mountain as hopes faded of making the summit during the annual 'weather window' - the period each year when the weather is favourable to reach the top. It could be the first year since the 1970s that nobody reaches the summit of the mountain.
We normally hear about people climbing it but a Russian extreme sport star has completed the world's highest base jump by leaping off Mount Everest. Valery Rozov made the jump from the north face of Everest at more than 7,000m high. The stunt took more than two years to plan and marks the 60th anniversary of the first climb to the top of the world's highest mountain.
Climbing Mount Everest is by no means an easy task. Read our guide on how you reach the summit of the world's highest mountain - all 8,848 metres of it! Preparing to scale Everest takes a lot of training - up to two years is recommended to make sure you're fit enough. This includes climbing other mountains, as well as more common exercises such as running (wearing a heavy rucksack) and weight training. Mountaineer Alan Hinkes is the first Briton to conquer all 14 of the world's highest mountains, including Everest. He told Newsround: "It's best to gain climbing experience, develop your stamina and learn skills such as how to use an ice axe and crampons." Alan says that when you get to Everest base camp, you have to spend around four weeks "acclimatising" - that's getting used to the extreme altitude. The base camp is 5,300m above sea level, so the air is much thinner. There's less oxygen, which makes it harder to breathe. During this time, climbers gradually do longer and longer climbs from base camp, before going for the summit. You'll need quite a bit of special equipment to get to the top. This includes ice axes and boots with crampons (sharp spikes) - these take some getting used to. "You have a special suit filled with down feathers - it's the lightest and most efficient way of keeping you warm," explains Alan. "You need eye protection or you'll go snowblind because there's so much ultraviolet light. It basically means your eyeballs get sunburnt and you can't see." Other things to pack are a harness, bottled oxygen, thermals, gloves and several pairs of socks. "There's no water so you have to melt snow and ice to drink. You don't wash so you have to be prepared to get smelly!" You'll need a permit from the Nepalese government if you want to climb Mount Everest. Anyone can get one but they're very expensive. A big concern for climbers is altitude sickness, which can lead to acute mountain sickness (AMS). That's when your blood becomes thicker and you can suffer a clot or stroke. If you don't descend it can be fatal. Other hazards include frostbite - which can lead to you losing fingers and toes - and hypothermia (when your internal body temperature drops to a dangerously low level). Some people have been known to freeze to death. 'The Death Zone' The Death Zone is the part of climb that's higher than 8,000m - it gets its name because there's so little oxygen up there that nothing can live for long. At this point getting to the top is a race against time. Alan remembers his time spent there: "The Death Zone is like having a really bad headache, suffering from the flu and trying to run a marathon - in a blizzard." The most common way of climbing Everest is by joining an expedition with guides. But this can be really expensive - a trip up can cost around £50,000! So you'd better start saving...
A school teacher in China kissed a pig to thank pupils for not dropping rubbish. Principal Hong Yaoming chose to motivate his children by promising to kiss a piglet if they kept the school tidy. A month later the school was very clean and the principle had no option to fulfil his promise. The pig was a bit bigger than he was expecting but he kissed it anyway. Principal Hong Yaoming said:"Instead of a regular sized piglet weighing less than 5kg (11 lbs), the pig I got was about 20 kg (44 lbs)." The video has become very popular on a Chinese social network site and the 4000 plus kids at the school seemed to enjoy watching.
Massive elephant seal blocks road in Brazil. We've all heard of a zebra crossing - but have you ever seen an elephant seal crossing? Shoppers in Brazil were amazed to see a massive elephant seal hit the busy high street on Saturday. The seal waddled out of the ocean and into the city of Balneario Camboriu where it went for a walk - even using the proper crossings. Cars were blocked for 20 minutes whilst police officers splashed water on the seal to keep it wet. After about an hour and a half in the city, the seal returned on the sea.
A three-year-old girl from has become an internet sensation after video of her climbing up a door frame was a YouTube hit.Sofya Dickson's father filmed her climbing a door frame, and now over 210,000 viewers across the world have watched the video.Her Dad watches her and puts pillows on the floor to keep her safe when she climbs up. Sofya says it is hard but she enjoys it and it is not scary. Mr Dickson said he put the video on the internet after Sofya stunned both him and his wife with her skills. "Almost quarter of a million people have watched the video of my daughter climbing the wall," he said. "It's a little bit bizarre and I'm getting phone calls from America and it's all very strange to be honest. Don't try this at home.
Check out three AMAZING body tricks with Dr Chris from new CBBC series Operation Ouch. He stops Ricky from being able to lift his left foot off the ground - without touching him! Then he reads Ricky's mind by telling which hand our presenter's hidden a penny in. The doctor tops it off with a display of "super strength" - Ricky finds it impossible to lift Chris' hand from the top of his head! But these tricks are nothing to do with magic - it's all down to science, as Dr Chris explains all in our clip. Operation Ouch is a new series on everything you've always wanted to know about your body, how it works and how it fixes itself. It's fronted by identical twin doctors Chris and Xand van Tulleken.
More than 100 of the world's best female cyclists are taking part in the first ever Women's Tour of Britain, which starts today. It's set to be the biggest ever women's cycling race in the country. Competitors will set off from Oundle in Northamptonshire and finish in Bury St Edmunds in Suffolk on Sunday. The race is made up of five stages taking place over five days and some of Britain's top cyclists, like Laura Trott and Dani King, will take part. But fellow gold medallist Joanna Rowsell has had to pull out due to illness.
Liverpool's hopes of winning the Premier League suffered a massive blow when they drew with Crystal Palace after having a three-goal lead. It all went wrong for the Reds in the final 11 minutes. Despite Liverpool having scored three times, a goal from Palace's Damien Delaney and a double from substitute Dwight Gayle brought the game to a 3-3 draw. It left Luis Suarez in tears at the final whistle. The result puts Liverpool on top of the Premier League table but now Manchester City are favourites to win the title, with home games against Aston Villa and West Ham still to come.
The World Cup is just around the corner and many of you will be out trading footie cards and stickers. They've been popular with sports fans for many years, but let's face it - getting hold of the those prized cards is sometimes frustrating. Well Ricky's been to the City of London on the hunt for some top tips.
Mark Selby staged a remarkable comeback to win the snooker World Championship. Mark was the runner-up in 2007 and it looked like he might miss out again when he was 10-5 behind. But then things turned around for him and he managed to beat five-time champ Ronnie O'Sullivan 18-14. It was an impressive win as Ronnie had never been beaten in a world final before. Mark's victory means he returns to the top of the world rankings. He dedicated his win to his late father, who died when he was 16.
Elena Baltacha, a former British tennis number one, has died overnight at the age of 30, from liver cancer. Baltacha, widely known by the nickname Bally, played for Team GB at the London Olympics in 2012, and also thrilled home crowds at Wimbledon.Born in Ukraine, she moved with her family to the UK and grew up in Scotland. She had a career troubled by illness and retired from the sport late last year. Current British number one Laura Robson paid tribute to her friend and team-mate on social media. She said: "Impossibly sad. Forever a teammate. Sweet dreams Bally." World number one Serena Williams tweeted: "My deepest prayers, thoughts, concern and love goes out to Elena Baltacha's family. I am deeply sorry for your loss."
The country's top hovercraft drivers are gearing up for the first round of the 2014 UK championships which get underway today.The hovercrafts that take part can reach speeds of 70 miles per hour and are driven on both land and water.
Cristiano Ronaldo has smashed the Champions League scoring record. The Real Madrid player scored two goals on Tuesday night, taking his total to 16 goals in the Champions League this season.
He has overtaken the former record of 14 goals which was held by Lionel Messi (2011-12), Ruud van Nistelrooy (2002-03) and Jose Altafini (1962-63). After beating Bayern Munich on Tuesday, Ronaldo still has the Champions League final to play on Saturday May 24th with the chance to increase his record. Olympic champion Greg Rutherford has broken the British long jump record, despite complaints from rival Chris Tomlinson. Greg jumped 8.51 metres at an event in San Diego, USA, but Chris said the jump was "not legitimate". A jump is judged to be illegal if an athlete "touches the ground beyond the take-off line" when taking off. But officials from USA Track and Field have now said "all marks are verified and legal". Why the disagreement? A strip of soft clay at the edge of the long jump helps judges check a jump is legal. If the clay is marked, the jump is a foul. People sent pictures of Greg's jump to Chris. They appear to show his foot over the white line. Jumpers have overstepped the line before, but as long as the clay isn't marked the jump is still legal. Chris Tomlinson has asked UK Athletics to inspect Greg's jump, but made clear he had the "utmost respect" for his fellow jumper and regarded him "as a friend". Chris and Greg both held the previous British long jump record of 8.35 metres.
Preparations for the 2016 Rio Olympics are the "worst" ever seen. That's according to International Olympic Committee vice-president John Coates. He said the IOC has had to place special experts in Rio's organising team to make sure the Games go ahead - something that's never happened before. "The situation is critical on the ground," he said. Brazil also faces a struggle to be ready in time for the Fifa World Cup, which starts in just 44 days. "It's the worst that I've experienced... They are not ready in many, many ways” John Coates IOC vice-president. Australian Mr Coates, who has been involved in the Olympics for nearly 40 years, has made six trips to Rio to look at how the preparations are going. "The IOC has adopted a more hands-on role," he said. "There is no Plan B. We are going to Rio." He believes it's "a worse situation" than in 2004, when there were big worries over preparations for the Athens Games in Greece. Delays aren't unusual for major sporting events: organisers for the 2004 Games in Athens were warned by the IOC several times over delays - and at one point the IOC boss even threatened to take the Games away from Greece. But the Games in Athens did eventually deliver on time. "It's the worst that I've experienced," he added. "We have become very concerned. They are not ready in many, many ways. "We have to make it happen and that is the IOC approach. You can't walk away from this." He said that building work has not even started on some venues in Rio, and that transport systems aren't ready either. He added that Rio organisers have the same number of staff - 600 - as London did at the same stage ahead of 2012, but Rio's staff do not have the necessary experience. John Coates helped deliver the Sydney 2000 Games as head of the Australian Olympic Committee. He said it was proving difficult for the IOC to get the answers they needed. "No-one is able to give answers at the moment," he said.
A teenager who has raised more than £3m for charity has broken a world record. Stephen Sutton from Staffordshire was diagnosed with bowel cancer aged 15 and started raising funds for the Teenage Cancer Trust. Things Stephen's done on his wish-list: Star as an extra in a film or music video. Organise a charity football match. Skydive for charity. Organise a charity gig. Drum in front of a huge crowd. Crowd surf in a rubber dinghy at a gig. Go busking. He has written a bucket list - featuring things he wants to accomplish in his lifetime - which includes getting in the Guinness Book of World Records. His record was getting the most people to make a "heart-shaped hand gesture". Stephen himself attended the event and the organisers said he was "so excited" to have achieved the record.
Some headteachers in schools across England are considering making summer holidays shorter. They're discussing spreading holidays more evenly throughout the year. The group's leader says a shorter summer break could stop teachers getting too tired and cut expensive summer holiday prices for families. At the moment it's only a suggestion but the government is planning to let schools in England have more of a say on holidays in the future.
If you've ever fancied owning a mountain and have a couple of million pounds to spare, listen up. The new owner of the mountain will also have grazing rights for: 732 hogs. 5,471 sheep. 200 lambs. Well, Blencathra, a peak in the north west of England, is up for sale. It's thought it's the first sale of a mountain in the famously beautiful tourist area known as the Lake District. At over eight hundred metres high, it has a price tag of £1.75million - but it does come with the ancient title, of Lord of the Manor of Threlkeld!
Houses are being 3D printed in the Netherlands and the team creating them says it's the way to make cities in the future. They are printed with a plastic based on plant oils, and the creators claim it's waste-free and eco-friendly.
A big argument's erupted over plans to get rid of sediment on Australia's Great Barrier Reef. People in charge of the reef have given permission for a big coal port to be built nearby, and for the waste sea bed to be dumped over the reef. The sea bed needs to be dug out to make room for big ships. But scientists from the United Nations science group Unesco say it could smother or poison the reef's coral. Unesco is so worried about the impact on the reef that it says it is thinking of formally protecting it by putting it on an endangered list of the world's natural attractions. The Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority, which looks after the reef, said it would allow the dumping because the waste would be dealt with following "strict environmental conditions". But in a report Unesco said there were other options to get rid of the waste which would be less damaging. It also said that much more needs to be done to help protect the reef, which is under threat from changing water conditions - though it did say some progress had been made. The Great Barrier Reef is the world's largest coral structure, rich in marine life. It is really famous and lots of people go there to snorkel. It stretches for more than 2,600km (1,680 miles) along Australia's eastern coast.
The body of a blue whale which washed up in Newfoundland, Canada, will be recovered by the Royal Ontario Museum. The whale was one of at least nine which died after being trapped in ice in the north Atlantic Ocean. Its body washed ashore and remained there, swelling with gas and making an unpleasant smell. Local people were worried it might explode! Now the Toronto museum says it will collect the 25m whale so its skeleton can be used for science. Blue whales are the one of largest animals ever to live on Earth. There are fewer than 250 mature adult blue whales in the Northwest Atlantic population. Samples from the whales will be taken and its skeleton will be studied by scientists. Dr Mark D Engstrom from the museum said: "This loss, representing up to 5% of this endangered species is extremely unfortunate. "This is an important opportunity to further our understanding of these magnificent animals and provide an invaluable resource for Canadian science and education now and in the future."
The UK Space Agency has launched a competition for children to design a space meal. The winning designer will work will celebrity chef Heston Blumenthal to make their meal for British astronaut Major Tim Peake. Ayshah's been speaking to Libby Jackson from the agency about the sort of things they eat at the moment and get some tips about the sort of thing they are looking for.
Scientist say they've found out more about why a bit of land in the North Sea was abandoned thousands of years ago. The area called Doggerland off the coast of England used to connect Britain to Europe thousands of years ago when sea levels were much lower than now. Researchers believe a massive landslide off the coast of Norway caused a giant tidal wave five metres tall that wiped out the last people to live in Doggerland 8,200 years ago. A rise in sea levels made the land into a series of islands before they were totally covered. Scientists have different theories about exactly when people left the area but new research shows the impact of the tidal wave would have been devastating. Prehistoric weapons like these spears have been recovered from the area which is now under the sea. None of the objects found were from a time later than the tsunami which could suggest that people didn't live there after it hit. But some people think it may have been abandoned before because rising sea levels had already made it marshy.
The government backs plans for a spaceport and a huge expansion of the UK space industry. The spaceport would be used to launch spacecrafts and satellites into orbit. The government wants an increase in investment in the space industry to £40bn by 2030. It also wants to have a port that would allow tourists to go to space. Similar projects are already being developed in the US. Dr David Parker, chief executive at the UK Space Agency said: "Our vision is to make the UK the most attractive location for space businesses to set up and prosper - and I'm convinced we are on our way."
Millions of South Africans are voting for who they want to run their country. It's 20 years since the racist system of apartheid ended in South Africa. Many of those born after apartheid are now old enough to vote, they are being called the 'born free' voters. Under apartheid black South Africans were not allowed to vote. The current President Jacob Zuma is expected to win this election giving him a second five-year term in power. It's the first general election since the country's first black president, Nelson Mandela, died. Mandela was seen as inspirational for getting rid the apartheid system - where black South Africans were not allowed to use the same schools, hospitals and shops as white people. Mandela's party, the African National Congress (ANC), have been in power since apartheid ended.
People in Afghanistan are observing a national day of morning after a huge landslide in one area of the country. Villagers are waiting for emergency food supplies and are having to sleep in temporary tents after houses and buildings were hit by falling mud and rocks. It's not clear how many people died in the tragedy but thousands of people are buried.
The government in Ukraine says its army will carry on battles with groups who want the country to have closer ties with Russia. One of Ukraine's leading politicians says the operation will continue despite fierce violence on Friday. Ukrainian forces are trying to re-take control of several towns and cities in the east of the country that have been taken over by armed anti-government groups, who want more Russian influence in Ukraine. There have been months of clashes between people who want the country to have closer ties with its neighbour Russia, and others who want Ukraine to have more to do with the rest of Europe instead.
A town near Stonehenge in Wiltshire, in the south west of England has been named the oldest continuously occupied settlement in the UK. An archaeology dig in Amesbury found animal bones that showed that people have been living there since 8,820BC. The River Avon which runs through the town, would have been like a main road at the time, carrying many travellers. The dig also found evidence of feasts: large animal remains and thousands of burnt flints used for cooking. It's always been thought that thousands of years ago, people were nomadic: they moved around, not settling in one place. But these new findings show people staying in Amesbury for long periods of time. David Jacques, from the University of Buckingham, says the discovery is a big deal for people who study this period of history, known as the Neolithic. "It provides evidence for people staying put, clearing land, building, and presumably worshipping, monuments," he says. "The first monuments at Stonehenge were built by these people. For years people have been asking why is Stonehenge where it is, now at last, we have found the answers." Stonehenge was built in around 2,500BC - thousands of years later than these first settlers in Amesbury.
Glow in the dark road markings have been removed from a road in the Netherlands. The markings were being tested to see if they could be useful to drivers. The painted lines would charge up with sunlight in the daytime and glow green at night, getting rid of he need for streetlights. But some drivers were driving along the road with their headlights switched off to experience the glow in the dark effect. That could be dangerous. Heijmans, the company behind the trial, also found the markings didn't work as well when they got wet after rainfall. The company said: "We are working on developing Glowing Lines version 2.0, which will be ready for this summer." The UK Highways Agency, which looks after roads in the UK, said glowing paint would be "unsuitable for use in this country", possibly because it's not sunny enough.
An exact copy of Tutankhamun's famous tomb has been built in Egypt, to protect the original. The ancient tomb was discovered in almost perfect condition back in 1922. Now the number of people visiting is causing its delicate walls to fall apart, so an exact copy has been built using laser scanners and 3D printers. It's hoped tourists will go and see the copied tomb, instead of the original.
A massive video game burial site has been discovered in New Mexico, USA. The site is believed to contain thousands of copies of a video game called ET The Extra-Terrestrial. A company called Atari made the game in 1982 but it was a flop and is famously thought of as one of the worst video games ever made. It's thought Atari could have dumped millions of unsold copies in a landfill site in September 1983. Top 5 worst games ever made. Presented by Gordon Sinclair from retro gaming event Play Blackpool. 1. Cassette 50, Z50 Spectrum published by Cascade Games Ltd 2. Rise of the Robots, Amiga published by Time Warner Interactive 3. Superman, Nintendo 64 published by Titus Software 4. Busby 3D, PlayStation published by Accolade & Telstar 5. ET The Extra-Terrestrial, published by Atari Inc What was so bad about ET? ET was one of the first video games to be based on a feature film. The ET movie was so successful that everybody expected the video game would be popular too. But the graphics were poor and the game was frustrating to play. Game reviewer Aqualung said: "It's impossible to follow without the manual." "The real reason so many people hate it is that they have no clue what to do." How did this happen? Atari was desperate to get the game out in time for Christmas and rushed to produce it in just five weeks. It simply wasn't long enough to make an excellent game. Atari produced millions of copies because it thought the game would be a huge hit. When the game was released it got terrible reviews and some customers even returned their copies for a refund. Shortly afterwards the entire video games industry experienced a huge drop in sales and Atari ended up with millions of unsold copies. Why were the games buried? Xbox Live's Larry Hryb told the BBC the games were probably buried "out of shame". James Heller, who used to work for Atari, told the Associated Press news agency that he was asked to get rid of of 728,000 game cartridges in 1983. They were sent to the landfill and James decided to pour a layer of concrete over the games to stop them being discovered. The site is now being dug up by Fuel Entertainment and Microsoft, who are making a documentary about it. They've already found some copies of the game and there's a lot more digging to do.
A team at a university in London has developed a new kind of water container that you can eat. It isn't shaped like a bottle, instead designers at the Royal College of Art have made small water blobs. A jelly skin made from calcium and algae keeps the water trapped inside the blob. The calcium and algae are edible, and users drink the water by bursting the blob in their mouth. The team is still working on the design as there are some issues, such as how to store and carry blobs without them bursting.But the bottle's designer, Rodrigo Garcia-Gonzales, says in the future people will be able to make these water blobs at home.He hopes if they become available to the public it will reduce the amount of waste created by plastic bottles.
Five British service personnel have been killed in a helicopter crash in southern Afghanistan. The Ministry of Defence say the crash near Kandahar air base appeared to have been a "tragic accident". Four of those on board, three soldiers and an airman, were stationed at RAF Odiham in Hampshire. The fifth, an Army reservist, was based in London. The families of all five servicemen have been told. Prime Minister David Cameron said his "heart goes out to the families and friends of those killed in this terrible tragedy".It is the first fatal British helicopter crash in the Afghan conflict. Since the war began in 2001, 453 British service personnel have been killed. The UK government plans to take all troops out of Afghanistan by the end of the year.
Are older siblings more ambitious? A study of 1,500 families across the UK suggests firstborn children are more ambitious when it comes to studying, and going on to college or university. The study also found firstborn girls were 13% more ambitious than firstborn boys. Newsround sent Leah to a school to find out what kids there thought of their siblings.
Some of the world's largest and busiest coastal cities are sinking, according to scientists. Gilles Erkens from the Deltares Research Institute said New Orleans, Bangkok and Jakarta could eventually sink below sea level unless action is taken. It's well known that sea levels is rising, but in some cities the ground is sinking too. In some areas land is sinking ten times faster than the sea level is rising. North Jakarta in Indonesia has sunk four metres in the last 35 years. Scientists use satellites to measure whether the ground is sinking. They can see changes as small as 1mm. In some areas the ground sinks naturally but in this case one of the main reasons is manmade. Some cities pump water from under the ground to use for drinking water. This can cause the land above it to sink. How do you stop a city sinking? Dr Gilles Erkens who worked on the study said: "The most rigorous solution and the best one is to stop pumping groundwater for drinking water." The city of Tokyo sank two metres before water pumping there was stopped. Countries who want to follow Tokyo's example would need to find a new way of sourcing drinking water. That's not always easy to do.
Spider app 'could help cure phobias'. Apps that could help people overcome their worst fears have been developed for smartphones. One app claims to help people who are scared of spiders, using a technique called systematic desensitisation. Users have to play video games that feature cartoon spiders which look cute and harmless. As the game progresses, the spiders start to look more realistic. Eventually players have to help an injured tarantula. The game was developed by two mental health experts. However some experts have warned that apps should not be seen as a replacement for seeing a doctor. About 10% of people have a phobia. We can be afraid of just about anything. Arachnophobia - fear of spiders. Claustrophobia - fear of being trapped in a small space. Turophobia - fear of cheese. Coulrophobia - fear of clowns. Omphalophobia - fear of belly buttons.
Titanic letter sells for £119,000 at auction. The last letter to be written on the Titanic ship has been sold for £119,000 at auction. It was written by survivors Esther Hart and her seven-year-old daughter Eva, eight hours before the ship hit an iceberg. It is said to be the only known example written on the Titanic. The letter only survived because it was in the pocket of her husband's coat which he gave her to keep warm. It was meant for her mother in Chadwell Heath, east London. The Titanic sank on the night of Sunday 14 April 1912, on the fifth day of its first voyage from Southampton to New York. The letter was sold at an auction in Wiltshire on Saturday. The winning bid was but fees and other charges brought the total to £119,000, which the auctioneers said was a new world record for a Titanic letter.
At least 80 people have been killed and hundreds are stranded following severe flash floods in northern Afghanistan. People have been trapped on the roofs of their houses and thousands of homes have been destroyed. Rescue helicopters have been deployed to help find people are take them to safety. The governor of Jowzjan province, an area badly affected by the floods, warned that the number of victims was likely to rise. There are reports of flooding in other provinces in the north and west of Afghanistan.
New £200m icebreaker for UK polar science to be built. UK science is to get one of the biggest, most advanced polar research vessels in the world. The £200m investment in an icebreaker is to be announced by Chancellor George Osborne in a speech on Friday. The ship is likely to be 130m long and have a helipad, cranes, onboard labs, and be able to launch submarines and other ocean survey gear. It should be ready to go in 2019 and will support scientists in both the Antarctic and the Arctic.Plans for the design of the ship need to be finalised but this is what's known at the moment. Likely to have a length of 130m and a breadth of 25m. Its gross tonnage would be about 13,000 tonnes. Its cargo volume would be around 4,200 cu metres. It must be able to operate on its own for up to 80 days. This means it could cover roughly 24,000 nautical miles. Helicopter facilities are a must-have. It would launch aerial and ocean robotic systems. Up to 60 scientists and support staff could live aboard.
Areas where badgers have been culled saw a rise in hedgehog numbers according to scientists. Badgers have been killed in some areas of the UK to try and stop them spreading a disease called Bovine TB. Scientists at Exeter and Southampton Universities and the National Wildlife Management Centre say in areas where trials of badger culls took place, the number of hedgehogs more than doubled. Fieldwork for the research was carried out between 2000 and 2005. Why have the numbers of hedgehogs increased? It might be because badgers and hedgehogs compete for food. Badgers are bigger and eat worms and slugs just like hedgehogs and sometimes they eat hedgehogs too. Conservationists say although this is good news for hedgehogs their numbers are still falling in most of the country so more needs to be done to protect them. The research was funded by the Government Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs, which is behind the badger cull which not everyone agrees with. The Badger Trust says that hedgehog numbers have been affected by a number of different things. In a statement it said: "Although badgers will eat hedgehogs if desperate they are not hunters. Their main food is also the earthworm and underground grubs."
One of the trickiest toys around celebrates 40 years since its invention. The Rubik's Cube puzzle was thought up by Erno Rubik in 1974. The game has squares of different colours on each side and the idea is to move it around until each side has only one colour on it. It is really hard to do unless you know how and even the inventor took a month to master the technique. Some people find it so hard they cheat by peeling off the stickers to match the colours but the solution is actually a mathematical formula. Rubik's cube facts: Speed Cubers are people who race to solve the puzzle, if they are really good they can do it in under 6 seconds. Over 350 million Rubik's Cubes have been sold around the world. It was originally called the Magic Cube but was renamed in 1980 after the man who invented it. It can be solved in as few as 20 moves. There are 43 quintillion ways to scramble a Rubik's Cube.
Four manatees have been released back into the wild in Peru. The animals called Liberty, Yani, Yanayacu and Solwere were only young when they were rescued from illegal traffickers so have been raised in captivity. People capture the animal also known as 'sea cows' to sell as pets or kill for meat. Manatees are an endangered species and this release is part of a conservation project to protect them. The director of the Amazon Rescue Centre Javier Velasquez said: "When we rescue a manatee we make a promise to the animal which is: 'We are going to look after you with a lot of love and effort and we promise that we will free you.'" They kept their promise and now the four manatees are finally able to swim free in their natural environment.
There are calls for schools to be allowed to have blue emergency inhalers in their first aid kits. Inhalers are used by people who have asthma, which means that they sometimes have trouble breathing. The medicine has to be given to people by the doctor and rules say that prescribed drugs can't be in school's first aid kits. The government is looking into changing the rules so that in emergencies children can use school inhalers. It could reduce the number of kids having to go to hospital with asthma attacks.
A year on from a huge factory collapse in Bangladesh thousands of people have gathered to protest. The eight storey Rana Plaza clothing factory collapsed, more than a thousand people died and many more were injured. The accident led to complaints about the poor safety standards workers were made to work in. Safety inspections have been carried out at some factories in the country but not all of them and many people are still waiting for compensation. Thousands of people are still very angry about what happened and want the owner of the factory to be punished more severely. Some of the clothing companies which used the factory to make their clothes gave money to the victims but some people have criticised them for not giving enough.
Tennis superstar Andy Murray has been back to his home town of Dunblane in Scotland to chat to kids. In a special live question and answer session he spoke to kids all over the UK. Murray was in Scotland to receive the honour of the freedom of the city of Stirling. He was pretty emotional for his achievements to be recognised and even cried when he accepted the award. He said: "I think everyone knows that I'm extremely proud of where I come from......so to get this honour means a lot to me. " "Thank you very much for everyone who has come, thank you very much for everyone that voted."
Manchester United have sacked their manager David Moyes after just 10 months in charge. The club announced on Twitter on Tuesday morning: "Manchester United announces that David Moyes has left the club. "The club would like to place on record its thanks for the hard work, honesty and integrity he brought to the role." It comes after several newspaper reports that Moyes' time at the club was over, following a poor season. United previously said on Monday that Moyes had not been sacked, but they refused to comment on his longer-term future. The news comes after Sunday's 2-0 defeat to Everton - Moyes' former club. It means United cannot qualify for the Champions League next season. Moyes was chosen by Sir Alex Ferguson for the job when he stepped down after 26 years in charge last summer. The 50 year-old was handed a six-year deal to leave Everton for the Premier League champions. United, who are currently in seventh place in the table with four games remaining, will finish this Premier League season with their lowest ever points tally.
A huge fire on an industrial estate in Leeds, which started just before 2am on Monday morning, has been brought under control.Up to 80 fire-fighters tackled the blaze and nearby roads were closed. People in the city centre were told to keep their windows and doors closed because of potential chemicals that were kept on the site. Nobody was hurt in the fire and crews are expected to stay at the scene throughuot the day.
Thousands of runners are taking part in the Boston Marathon a year after two bombs exploded near the finish line. 36,000 runners have signed up to take part - 9,000 more than usual - allowing those who couldn't complete the course last year the chance to finish it. There are more police than ever at the event and people watching the race aren't allowed to bring rucksacks with them - only clear bags. Half a million supporters have turned up to cheer on family and friends.
The most Earth-like planet yet has been discovered, say scientists. The planet is thought to be a little bigger than Earth and most importantly has the potential to hold liquid water - an essential ingredient for life. It was spotted by the Kepler telescope and therefore has been given the catchy name of Kepler 186f. The Kepler telescope has found nearly 1,000 new worlds since its launch in 2009 and in February alone it was announced that it had spotted 715 new planets. Kepler 186f is about 500 light years away from the Earth. One light year is a distance of about six trillion miles, so the new planet isn't close by!
Scientists believe they have discovered what could be the birth of a new moon in the rings of Saturn. The picture above, which shows a tiny bump on the outer ring, was captured by a spacecraft and led scientists to believe it is some sort of object. They've named the object Peggy and estimate it may be about a kilometre wide and made of ice. If Peggy is confirmed, the object will become the 63rd moon in Saturn's orbit. What next for Peggy? Saturn is the second biggest planet in our solar system. It has more than 60 moons and is made up of different gases. Its many moons vary in size, with some orbiting within its rings and others outside of the planet. Scientists say if Peggy continues to orbit inside the rings, it could collide with smaller lumps of ice and disintegrate. But if Peggy escapes beyond the rings, it will run the risk of drifting into the path of much larger moons. They say if Peggy does travel beyond the rings, it will be impossible for them to track it because it is so small.
Food regulators are launching a crackdown after finding some takeaways were selling lamb dishes that actually contained beef and chicken. The Foods Standards Agency found that 43 out of 145 samples of lamb takeaways were wrongly described, with 25 of those containing only beef, which is cheaper than lamb. They're now asking local authorities to test 300 samples of lamb from takeaways, starting at the beginning of May. They've also warned anyone found deliberatively mislabelling dishes could be prosecuted and fined.
The Children's Laureate, Malorie Blackman, says books that target boys and girls separately are wrong because they exclude half the population. She says targeting certain books at children, by putting things that appeal more to boys or girls on the cover, is a mistake. She also says with strong competition from computer games, more needs to be done to keep boys reading. Figures from the National Literacy Trust show that 35 percent of girls, aged 8-16, read outside of school everyday, whereas 26 percent of boys said they did.
New artwork thought to be by Banksy has appeared in Bristol and Cheltenham recently. But who is Banksy and why is his artwork such a big deal? Who is Banksy? Banksy is an anonymous British graffiti artist known for his artwork, often done in public places such as the walls of houses.He began spray-painting trains and walls in Bristol in the early 1990s and expanded his settings throughout England, then all over the world by the early 2000s. For efficiency he usually uses stencils, enabling him to create his paintings with great detail in a short time. His identity is unknown, despite lots of people trying to guess who he is. In 2008 the newspaper, The Mail on Sunday, revealed who they thought Banksy was, but his identity is still unconfirmed. Controversial? His artwork is often rebellious and there are lots of people who love what he does, paying thousands of pounds for it and considering it art. But there are others who don't support it and consider it vandalism. Some of his graffiti has been painted over soon after it appeared. In London in 2005 in an exhibition of his work, he released 200 live rats in the gallery. Rats are a common theme in his work.In an auction in 2008, Banksy's Keep It Spotless was sold for a record $1.8m - that's just over £1 million. In the same year a mobile home that contained a Banksy, was given a £500,000 price tag - not because the trailer was special but because it contained artwork by the Bristol artist. In 2013, Banksy even opened a stall in New York's Central Park, selling signed original canvasses for $60 (about £35). Most recently a piece of Banksy artwork appeared on a wall near a youth centre. A row has erupted after the centre's leader removed it and wanted to sell it to raise money for the youth club.
The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge, along with Prince George, have arrived in Australia for the second part of their tour down under. William and Kate left rain-soaked New Zealand and flew to sunny Sydney for a 10-day visit. They will travel across the country visiting famous sites, honouring Australia's war dead and recognising the achievements of individuals. To start off with, the royal couple spent time meeting well wishers at the famous Sydney Opera House. Prince William even talked about what Prince George's first words might be, suggesting that it could be 'koala' after the Australian animal.
A record number of beaches in the UK have 'excellent' water quality because of last summer's dry weather, according to the Marine Conservation Society. Researchers said the lack of rain caused less pollution to filter down from towns and cities to the coasts. In its annual Good Beach Guide, the Marine Conservation Society says 538 of 734 UK beaches tested between May and September 2013 reached the top standard for water quality. That's 135 more than the previous year. And only 14 beaches tested failed to reach minimum water quality standards, compared with 42 the year before. BBC reporter Tim Muffet sent us this report from Stokes Bay in Hampshire.
Obama asks Putin to help stop Ukraine protests. American leader Barack Obama has phoned Russian president Vladimir Putin to urge him to help stop protesters in eastern Ukraine. Pro-Russian groups have taken over more government buildings, despite a warning of military action from Ukraine. Putin says Russia hasn't been interfering. Protests by people who want Ukraine to stay as one have also taken place.
The Scouting Association are creating 17 new badges - and they're a bit different from building a camp fire or putting up a tent. Instead the new badges will reward skills like sending an email, posting a photo on the internet or working out how accessible a building is for someone with a disability. The new badges like 'media relations', 'photography" and 'communicator' will be spread across all age groups - but 10 are for the younger Beavers. The Scouting Association think the new badges reward skills young people need today. So we want to know - what badges would you like to introduce? Whether for the Scouts, the Guides, the Cubs, the Brownies or the Beavers - what skills should you get a badge for?
The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge have visited Christchurch, on the eighth day of their royal tour of New Zealand. They paid their respects to the victims of a earthquake that hit the city in 2011. The royal couple visited the Canterbury Television Memorial Park at Latimer Square where they laid down memorial stones as a tribute to Christchurch victims. They also met with families of the 185 people killed in the earthquake. William and Kate then walked over to the Transitional Cathedral where the local choir greeted them with the song 'Hine E Hine', a Maori lullaby. The couple then played cricket in a city park, where Kate had to dodge one of William's bowling attempts.
How deep underwater missing plane MH370 could be. Teams searching for the missing plane MH370 are to use a special robotic submarine to search areas of the bottom of the Southern Indian Ocean. They've so far been searching for the plane's 'black box', using a 'pinger' to detect a signal deep underwater. They thought they might have found one last week, but have heard nothing since. The big problem they face is just how deep the black box is likely to be. 
Pro-Russian militants continue to occupy government buildings in eastern Ukraine, ignoring a deadline to leave or face eviction by Ukrainian forces. Ukraine's interim president promised military action if government buildings were not given up by 06:00 GMT. Russia warned that any use of force in eastern Ukraine could ruin crisis talks due later this week. Last week we told you Pro-Russian protestors had taken over government building's in three big cities in the East of Ukraine. This includes the city of Donetsk, where demonstrators want to break away from Ukraine and are calling for a vote next month. A few weeks ago, neighbouring country Russia took over Ukraine's southern region of Crimea. Ukraine is a country split over whether to have closer ties to Russia, or to the European Union.
Teams searching for the missing Malaysia Airlines plane are to send out a robotic submarine into the sea for the first time. Search chief Angus Houston said the Bluefin-21 drone would be sent down as soon as possible to search the sea floor. Teams have been using a towed pinger locator to listen for signals from the plane's "black box" flight recorders. What is a black box? But no new signals have been heard since 8 April, and it's thought the flight recorders' batteries may have run out. Flight MH370 went missing on 8 March. It was flying from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing when it lost contact with air traffic controllers over the South China Sea. Malaysian officials believe, based on satellite data, that it ended its flight in the southern Indian Ocean, thousands of kilometres off course. An international search has focused on waters west of the Australian city of Perth, with teams racing against time to detect signals before the flight recorder batteries - which last about one month - run out.
A large forest fire has destroyed more than 150 homes in the Chilean port city of Valparaiso, forcing thousands of people to evacuate their homes. People have been moved away from the city to escape the flames, which have been fanned by strong winds coming in from the Pacific. President Michelle Bachelet put the army in charge of the evacuation after declaring the city a disaster zone. Four people are reported to have died in the fire and many more injured after breathing in smoke.
One of Ukraine's Ministers has said Ukrainian security forces have started an operation to remove pro-Russian militants who took control of government and police buildings in the eastern part of the country. Earlier Russia warned that any use of force in eastern Ukraine could ruin crisis talks due later this week. Last week we told you Pro-Russian protestors had taken over government building's in three big cities in the East of Ukraine.This includes the city of Donetsk, where demonstrators want to break away from Ukraine and are calling for a vote next month. A few weeks ago, neighbouring country Russia took over Ukraine's southern region of Crimea. Ukraine is a country split over whether to have closer ties to Russia, or to the European Union.
The Rotary Young Citizen Awards 2014 has taken place - young amputee athlete Harvey is one of the winners! In the Awards young people across the country are recognised for their remarkable achievements. When Harvey Parry was 15 months old he had to have both his legs amputated after getting the disease meningitis. But that didn't stop him pursuing his love of sport and now he's one of Britain's most successful young disabled athletes. Harvey competes against children up to ten years older than him!
Australian officials say they're confident that signals heard in the Indian Ocean are coming from the black box of the missing Malaysia Airlines plane. Flight MH370 disappeared mid-flight a month ago - something that's extremely rare. Australia's been leading efforts to find the wreckage since then and their Prime Minister says the signals are helping them narrow down the search area. Guide: How do you search for a black box? The plane was flying from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing on 8 March when it disappeared. Malaysian officials say they believe it crashed in the southern Indian Ocean, west of the Australian city of Perth far from its intended flight path.
The Speaker of the House of Commons has told Newsround there's "room for improvement" in the way Prime Minister's Questions are done. It comes after Prime Minister David Cameron and Labour leader Ed Miliband made the news last week for using the insults "muppet" and "dunce". We received lots of comments from you guys telling us how unhappy you were with their behaviour. Speaker John Bercow is in charge of keeping MPs in order. He told Newsround viewers Stella and Muhannad: "I think there's a lot of room for improvement in the way that we go about this particular session." He continued: "I would hope that the prime minister and the leader of the opposition would be willing to take note of, and show some respect for, the views of young people across the country."
Four paralysed men in America have been able to move their legs again after special electrical sensors were used to bring about movement. Andrew, Dustin, Kent and Rob were able to scrunch their toes, and move their ankles and knees - though they're not yet able to walk on their own. It's a breakthrough by researchers and experts say it could in the future become a treatment for spinal injury. But how have electrical pulses been able to move parts of the men's legs? What does it mean to be paralysed? People who are paralysed can't move the body parts that are affected because messages aren't getting through to and from the brain. When a person's legs are paralysed, think of it like this - their spinal cord acts like a high-speed rail line carrying electrical messages from the brain to the rest of the body. But if there is any damage to the track, then the message will not get through and people with spinal cord injuries can lose all movement and sensation below the injury.
Pro-Russian protestors have taken over government building's in three big cities in the East of Ukraine. This includes the city of Donetsk, where demonstrators want to break away from Ukraine and are calling for a vote next month. A few weeks ago, neighbouring country Russia took over Ukraine's southern region of Crimea. Ukraine is a country split over whether to have closer ties to Russia, or to the European Union. Guide: What's happening in Ukraine? It has been in crisis over recent months, with tensions mounting between people who want Ukraine to stay an independent country, and those who think it should become part of Russia. Ukraine is sending security officials to the Eastern cities affected - Donetsk, Luhansk and Kharkiv - to try and regain control.
Australian officials searching for the missing Malaysian airliner say they have their "most promising lead" so far. Teams leading the search told a news conference on Monday that signals similar with those from aircraft flight recorders had been detected for more than two hours. Flight MH370 went missing more than four weeks ago - something that is very rare. It iss thought to have crashed in the Indian Ocean but so far no debris has been found. Air Chief Marshal Angus Houston, who is leading the search, called it the "most promising lead" so far. But he said more information was needed: "We haven't found the aircraft yet and we need further confirmation." The plane was flying from Kuala Lumpur to Beijing on 8 March when it disappeared. Malaysian officials say they believe it crashed in the southern Indian Ocean.
Supermarkets have been asked to end offers like "buy one get one free" deals to try to reduce the amount of food being thrown away by shoppers. The new report by the House of Lords European Union Committee says 15 million tonnes of food is wasted in the UK each year. The Committee said: "We are urging supermarkets to look again at offers such as 'buy one get one free', which can encourage excess consumption which leads to food waste." Shoppers often end up having to bin food from these multiple item offers because they struggle to eat it before the 'use by' date. Leftover food from shops and other places should be passed on to charities and food banks, the committee said.
The Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park in east London has opened to the public for the first time since the London 2012 Games. As well as big venues for sport, music and theatre, the park has water fountains that react to movement and an adventure playground. It is the biggest park to be opened in London for a century. Visitors can go up 375 feet (114.5 metres) in the ArcelorMittal Orbit tower. Prince Harry visited the site and tried out the facilities on Friday. He said: "It's far more beautiful than I possibly thought it could be. "This is going to be a quite astonishing place to come and bring your family."
Police in Banff in Scotland are asking the owners of 33 stolen gnomes to come forward. The garden gnomes, in all shapes and sizes, are suspected to have been taken from gardens in Aberdeenshire. Local Police have appealed that the owners try and get in touch. Police Scotland said the gnomes were: "believed to have been taken from a variety of addresses overnight between Wednesday and Thursday."
A 16 year old girl had to be rescued by fire fighters after getting stuck in a drain outside her home. Ella accidentally dropped her phone down the drain then got completely stuck after she climbed in to try and get it. Neighbours saw her in distress and called the fire brigade. After she was rescued, she said she went straight home and jumped in the bath.
She's the author who inspired CBBC's Tracy Beaker and the Dumping Ground and later this year Jacqueline Wilson will release her 100th book. It's called Opal Plumstead and tells the story of a spirited Edwardian girl who is forced to leave school at 14 to work in a sweet factory. The book is set within the backdrop of the First World War and also features the Suffragette movement - a group of women who campaigned for equal rights as men during the 1800's and 1900's. Tomorrow an exhibition opens at the V and A Museum of Childhood in London to celebrate the former children's laureate.
Five high rise flats in Glasgow will be demolished during the opening ceremony of the Commonwealth Games 2014. During the ceremony on 23 July 2014 the five set of flats, will be brought down. At the Celtic Park ceremony the demolition will be broadcast on a 100 foot television screen in front of a huge audience. The Red Road flats have been an iconic sight in Glasgow for almost 50 years. Some of the other blocks on the estate were demolished in 2012 and 2013. Commonwealth Games Minister Shona Robison said: "This spectacular start to the games within the opening ceremony will send a strong signal about the power of the Commonwealth Games. "For many people, these games are more than sport, they are a chance for regeneration, renewal and having better places to live and work."
Two brand new major exhibits open at the Royal Navy's National Museum in Portsmouth on Thursday. They include the huge gun that fired the first British shot of World War One, on the 5th of August 1914 and a submarine from World War Two. The museum in Portsmouth's historic dockyard also has lots of personal stories from the people who took part in famous battles. In World War One, more than 43,000 people from the Royal Navy died at sea.
Some sad news for Waterloo Road fans - the hit BBC show is to end in 2015. It has been running since 2006 and will complete its 10th series next year. Waterloo Road is set in a tough school, and follows its teachers, parents and pupils. It focused on some difficult and challenging subjects over the last 8 years and the viewing figures were often in the millions. BBC bosses said they were "incredibly proud" of the show, but that it had "reached the end of its lifecycle". Charlotte Moore, BBC One controller and Ben Stephenson, controller of BBC Drama said: "We are incredibly proud of Waterloo Road, and would like to thank Shed Productions and all the cast and teams involved across the ten series," "On BBC One it's important to make room for new drama and we are committed to commissioning new drama series for 8pm. There are some really exciting ideas currently in development but nothing to confirm yet."
An earthquake measuring has hit off the coast of northern Chile in South America, and the government has declared the area a disaster zone. Waves as high as two metres hit some areas and there have been power cuts, fires and landslides. Tens of thousands of people have been evacuated and a state of emergency has been declared. Official say at least six people have been killed.
High levels of air pollution are expected across parts of England on Wednesday. The sudden rise in pollution is down to dust blown over from the Sahara desert in northern Africa, and pollution emissions in the air. Over the last few days many people in the UK have found their cars covered in a layer of the fine dust. In London, the fine sand floating in the air has triggered one of the worst smogs of the year. Defra, the part of the Government that deals with environmental issues, has issued a warning over the levels of pollution in some parts of England on Tuesday. They have a scale of 1-10 by which they measure air pollution - 1 meaning "low" and 10 warning of "very high" levels. This morning they recorded a level 5 in the south East, north-east England and East Anglia - which means 'moderate'. But forecasters think that could rise 8 or 9 by later in the day. The elderly and those who have lung problems have been told to avoid doing heavy exercise outside.
Eating five portions of fruit and veg a day can sometimes be tricky. But a new study has suggested we should be eating seven or more portions to stay healthy. Researchers from University College London studied more than 65,000 people over seven years and found that while eating five portions a day was good, eating seven was better. The government says its "five-a-day" advice is sufficient and that many of us struggle to achieve even this. The study, which 65,226 men and women took part in, found the more fruit and vegetables people ate, the healthier they were. Fresh vegetables had the strongest protective effect, followed by salad and then fruit. The five-a-day message is based on advice from the World Health Organization. It highlights health benefits of getting five 80g portions of fruit and vegetables every day which can include fresh, frozen, canned, dried or pure juices.
The people of Crimea, in southern Ukraine, are today voting on whether the region should stay part of Ukraine or rejoin Russia. Most of the people living in Crimea believe they're Russian and voters are expected to support leaving Ukraine. But the vote has been called "illegal" by the government in Kiev and by countries like the United States. World leaders want Russia to stop its action in Crimea. During trouble there last month the area came under Russian control and the Russian army moved in. The vote comes during a violent few months for Ukraine. There have been some massive changes in the country, including the removal of President Viktor Yanukovych from power.
The UK's first official astronaut, Major Tim Peake, will be going into space next year and his mission is looking for a name. Tim will spend six months on board the International Space Station carrying out scientific experiments. The European Space Agency (ESA) is now asking people to choose a name for his mission. It's normal for the public to help choose names every time a European astronaut goes into orbit. Rosita Suenson from the ESA says its a way of getting the public to feel part of Tim's mission. A team will whittle the list of entries down, taking out anything that might be hard for people to pronounce, and then the short-list will be given to Tim who'll make the final choice.
Actress Keeley Hawes is going to play a new villain in the next series of Doctor Who. She will play Ms Delphox, a banker who's described as "a powerful out of this world character with a dark secret". The story sees the Doctor, played by Peter Capaldi, and his companion Clara Oswald, played by Jenna Coleman, meet Ms Delphox when they arrive "on a strange and puzzling planet". The story will be on TV screens in the autumn.
Mo Farah says he's "feeling good", despite collapsing at the New York half-marathon on Sunday. The Olympic champion came second in the race and stopped at the finishing line to pose for photos. But moments later he fell to the ground and had to be helped up. Later, Farah spoke to news reporters and reassured them: "It's no big deal." He still intends to run in the London marathon in April.
Russian President Vladimir Putin has signed a treaty to make Crimea a part of Russia. It's after the Crimean parliament formally applied to join its neighbouring country. Crimea has been part of Ukraine since 1954. On Sunday more than 96 percent of people who took part in a vote in Crimea said they wanted it to join Russia. President Vladimir Putin says the vote was fair. But leaders in Europe and the United States say the vote was illegal. It comes after months of unrest in Ukraine. Many people living in Crimea refused to take part in the vote. A vote like this is called a referendum and usually they are announced a long time before voting actually takes place. In Crimea the vote was announced and arranged in under two weeks.When the vote was announced some Ukrainian TV channels were made unavailable in Crimea. Some were replaced with Russian channels.
A new design for the £1 coin has been revealed which is said to be the most secure coin in the world. The new coin will be roughly the same size as the current one, but has 12 edges and is both gold and silver coloured. The current £1 coin was introduced in 1983. There are concerns that it has become too easy to copy illegally. It's thought around 45million fake £1 coins exist. The new coin will be introduced in 2017. The Queen's portrait appears on one side of the coin and a competition will be held to decide what goes on the other side. Adam Lawrence, chief executive of the Royal Mint, said: "It is our aim to produce a pioneering new coin which helps to reduce the opportunities for counterfeiting."
Every year the government explains how it will spend the country's money for the next 12 months. The Budget is worked out by the man in charge of Britain's money - the Chancellor of the Exchequer - with help from his office, the Treasury. The current Chancellor of the Exchequer is George Osborne. Why do we have a Budget? Just like you decide how to spend your pocket money, the government has to decide how to spend money on services like schools, hospitals, the police and housing. The government needs to work out how much money it has in the bank, so it can work out how to spend it on the country. What's the red briefcase about? Usually when you see the Chancellor make the Budget statement on TV, he is waving around a red briefcase. It traditionally contains the Budget speech. The original red briefcase was first used by politician William Gladstone in 1860. But in 1997 the former Chancellor Gordon Brown had a new one made as the old one was looking a bit tatty! Where does the money come from? The government gets the money from different types of taxes: Income tax: Everyone in the UK who earns money has to pay some of that money to the government. Most people have to pay about a fifth, but richer people pay more. VAT: You pay tax when you buy things. You may not realise it but 20% of the cost of many things goes to the government as VAT (Value Added Tax). Duties: These are extra taxes charged on certain things like cigarettes, alcohol and petrol. Most of the money people pay for these goes to the government as 'duty'. Does it affect me? You might not think it but the Budget does affect your life. The Chancellor may decide to spend more or less money on schools and he may also choose to spend money on youth schemes in your area. Adults may find they have more or less money to spend - which could mean more or less pocket money for you! What happens on Budget day? The Chancellor makes his speech to MPs about how he's spending the public's money. He tries to explain why he may be raising or lowering taxes on things. At the end of the speech, MPs discuss the Budget, then vote on whether or not to accept it.
The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge have donated £5,000 to help flood victims in a Denbighshire town. The mayor of Rhyl, Andrew Rutherford, said he was "gobsmacked" to receive a £5,000 donation from the royal couple. About 150 homes were flooded during storms in December.A spokesperson for the couple said William and Kate became fond of north Wales after living on the island of Anglesey. Many families are still living in temporary accommodation after the sea defences gave way, and a fundraising effort was launched to help them. The mayor said a letter he received on behalf of the couple read: "To show the people of Rhyl that they are in their thoughts, Their Royal Highnesses would like to make a personal donation to your Rhyl Town Mayor's Flood Appeal."
The search continues for debris that may have come from a Malaysia Airlines plane that went missing almost two weeks ago.Investigators are concentrating on an area in the southern Indian Ocean, about fifteen hundred miles from Australia, where satellite images showed two items that they think could be debris from the plane.But bad weather has meant the search has gone slowly and investigators still aren't sure whether it is wreckage from the missing plane or not.It's extremely rare for something like this to happen and that's why investigators are so baffled as to where the plane could have gone.
The search for the missing Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 has been stepped up as more planes have been sent out to check the Indian Ocean.Australia is leading the search from its naval base in Perth in Western Australia, and China and Japan have sent aircraft to join the hunt too.The search area has widened again since reports that more possible debris had been spotted on satellite images.Malaysia Airlines flight MH370 disappeared on 8 March.It left Kuala Lumpur in Malaysia and was supposed to land in Beijing in China, but officials now say they think it was flown in the wrong direction on purpose.There were 239 people on board.For the past few days, the search has been concentrated in the South Indian Ocean after a satellite showed what could be possible debris in the ocean there.Now China have released a second picture of what could be more debris in the ocean, picked up by a satellite.It's been more than two weeks since the plane disappeared but it's still not clear what happened and why contact was lost.It's extremely rare for something like this to happen and that's why investigators are struggling to understand what exactly happened.
Malaysia's prime minister has announced that flight MH370, which has been missing for more than two weeks, was lost at sea.Najib Razak said the latest data from a huge international search suggested "beyond reasonable doubt" that the plane had crashed into the southern Indian Ocean, off the coast of western Australia.The flight attracted world attention after disappearing from radar signals on 8 March. It's still not known what caused it to go missing.A plane going missing like this is incredibly rare and the announcement came on the fifth day of an international search effort, focused on an area closest to Perth in Australia.That's miles away from where MH370 was supposed to travel having been scheduled to go from Kuala Lumpur in Malaysia to Beijing in China.In a news conference Prime Minister Najib Razak said: "This is a remote location, far from any possible landing sites."It is therefore with deep sadness and regret that I must inform you that, according to this new data, flight MH370 ended in the southern Indian Ocean."
Downloading your favourite music, apps and books online could be about to become more expensive.At the moment, companies can sell digital downloads through other countries, where the amount of tax charged on them is lower.This makes them cheaper to buy but the UK government want to stop that happening.Officials think the move could raise an extra £300 million.What is VAT?It's all to do with something called VAT, or value added tax, an extra charge added to many of the things we buy.In the UK VAT adds an extra 20 per cent onto the cost of things compared to just three per cent in countries like Luxembourg.The government want to make sure that any downloads bought here are charged at the UK's VAT rate in the future.Officials think that the move could raise an extra £300 million for the Treasury, the government department in charge of looking after the UK's money.Research suggests that between 2008 and 2014, the UK was losing more than £1.5 billion a year because tax on songs and apps wasn't being charged at the full UK rate. That amount of money could have financed the 2012 Olympics.The government plans to impose the new law from the 1st January 2015.
Nel's been to Kabul in Afghanistan, the city where she was born, to find out what life is like for children living there now.Nel wanted to find out what kids in the city thought about the future of Afghanistan after foreign troops leave the country at the end of the year.Loads of different cameras were used during her trip, some were fixed to cars, skateboards and even a kite to get a view of the city that has never been seen before.You can watch Children of Kabul - An Uncertain Future at 5:30pm on Tuesday 25 March on the CBBC channel.
A two-storey house with just three rooms and no indoor bathroom has been put up for sale.The cottage in Colchester has just one bedroom, a landing area, a living room, a small kitchen and a toilet outside in the garden.The house has a £77,000 price-tag and the sellers say it is "quite possibly the smallest house" in the town.The little house is currently being used by a business to store equipment.It's owner Malcolm Cross said: "It would be a nice little cottage for somebody if they were willing to do some work on it."
Two huge water buffalo gave residents in Sydney a shock on Tuesday as they charged through the city.The animals escaped from a nearby park where an advert was being filmed.They stomped around for 2 km (1.2 miles), until firefighters were able to catch them using ladders and special equipment.Abril Felman, a student at the University of Sydney said: "I was just waiting for the bus and instead of a bus, two random buffalo ran past.""We were all standing back, we were all going 'That's really random'," Felman said.
Footie ace Frank Lampard has teamed up with the Premier League and the National Literacy Trust to get more boys reading.The National Literacy Trust say not enough kids are reading and that's why Frank has joined forces.
What's the best way to test a Mars rover before launch? Well it turns out the easiest way is to build a test planet here on Earth.Scientists in Hertfordshire have recreated a small piece of the Mars surface which has the same sand and rocks as the red planet, and is about the size of a basketball court.It will be used to test systems on the Mars rover that Europe will send to the planet in four years time.ExoMars, as it's known, will be a six-wheeled robot on a mission to find signs of past or present life.Nel's been to the converted warehouse to find out how it works.
The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge have posed for an official photograph with Prince George ahead of their tour of Australia and New Zealand.The eight-month-old is pictured in his mother's arms while Prince William holds their dog, Lupo.The image was taken by royal christening photographer Jason Bell at the family's Kensington Palace home.It is the first official picture of Prince George to be released since his christening last October.William and Kate are due to arrive in New Zealand on 7 April with the young Prince.They then fly to Australia on 16 April and their three-week tour ends on 25 April.The visit will be the first official overseas tour for Prince George.
There has been no breakthrough in talks between America and Russia on the crisis in Ukraine, the US has announced.American Secretary of State John Kerry held four hours of discussions with Russia's Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov but said afterwards the two countries had so far failed to agree on a solution.The US still consider Russia's takeover of Ukraine's Crimea region as illegal and are urging Russia to stop the build up of troops on Ukraine's border.
The studio that produced the Harry Potter films have confirmed they're to make a new film trilogy based on a JK Rowling book.Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them was written as one of Harry Potter's school textbooks, and will now be turned into a series of three films.The book was written in the middle of the fourth and the fifth books in the Harry Potter collection, and is set 70 years before we first meet Harry Potter.The story follows a "magizoologist" named Newt Scamander.The new films will be produced by David Heyman, who helped make the original Harry Potter films, and recently worked on Gravity.Kevin Tsujihara, one of the bosses at the film studio Warner Bros, persuaded JK Rowling to help turn the books into films.JK Rowling told actress Emma Watson, who played Hermione Granger in the Harry Potter films, that she completed the draft script in only 12 days."We had one dinner, a follow-up telephone call, and then I got out the rough draft that I'd thought was going to be an interesting bit of memorabilia for my kids and started rewriting," JK Rowling told the New York Times.
Former MP for the Labour Party, Tony Benn, has died aged 88.Prime Minister David Cameron and Labour Party leader Ed Miliband are amongst the people who've paid tribute to him today.Who was Tony Benn?Tony Benn was a well known politician, becoming an MP for the Labour Party in 1950.The Prime Minster David Cameron said, "He was an extraordinary man, a great writer, a brilliant speaker, extraordinary in Parliament and a great life of public, political and Parliamentary service,""I disagreed with most of what he said but he was always engaging and interesting."Tony Benn was 25 when he first entered Parliament.When his father died he inherited the title of Viscount Stansgate. This meant he had a place in the House of Lords but also meant that he couldn't carry on being an MP with his place in the House of Commons.After a lot of struggle, he was able to lose the title he'd inherited - so he could become an MP again.He was a popular public speaker, writer of diaries, and anti-war campaigner.His views weren't liked by all - he wasn't keen on Britain having close connections with other European nations or its military involvement in the Falkland Islands, Iraq and Afghanistan.BBC political correspondent Chris Mason told Newsround why Tony Benn was an important politician.He said, "What stood out about Tony Benn was on the big issues he never changed his mind. Whilst many in his party, Labour, watered down some of their views in the hope that would help them win an election, Mr Benn refused.""He even said that Tony Blair, Labour's most successful ever leader when it came to winning elections, was the worst leader the party ever had."Tony Benn retired as an MP in 2001.
A tiny piece of crystal has been found to be the oldest piece of the Earth's crust ever discovered.The 4.4 billion-year-old gem is twice the width of a human hair and barely visible to the eye.It was discovered on a sheep station in the Jack Hills region of Western Australia.Scientists from the University of Wisconsin-Madison think the discovery may explain more about the history of the Earth and how the Earth's crust formed.The Earth's crust is a thin layer of rock that forms the outer layer of the Earth's surface.If you think of the Earth as an apple, the crust would be it's skin.It's thought the Earth took 600 million years to cool and form a crust when the Earth was formed around 4.6 billion years ago.However, the zircon crystal could prove that the crust formed earlier.The gem is a zircon crystal, which are already known to be the oldest material formed on Earth
US President Barack Obama says he is now making plans to withdraw all American forces from Afghanistan by the end of 2014.Most foreign forces were expected to leave this year - but there was a plan to keep a small number of US soldiers in the country to keep the peace and continue working with local troops.President Obama wants Afghan president Hamid Karzai to sign a security agreement to give American soldiers legal protection, but Karzai won't sign that deal.Foreign troops have been in the country since 2001, when a group called the Taliban were overthrown from power.Britain's Prime Minister David Cameron announced in 2012 that he would bring the majority of British servicemen and women home by the end of 2014.
You might not know it but Bananas are big business.They're Britain's favourite fruit, and we go through around five billion each year.But while you can pick one up at your local supermarket for pretty cheap, the farmers who grow them say it's getting harder to sell them for the current low prices.Farmers are now calling on supermarkets to increase banana prices.Renwick Rose, who represents farmers in St Lucia in the Caribbean, said that while banana shelf prices had dropped, production costs had doubled.Mr Rose said: "It is almost impossible now to make ends meet."It's really just unsustainable. People cannot continue to be producing bananas and getting the returns they are getting."However the British Retail Consortium, which represents supermarkets and retailers in the UK, said: "producers and customers are getting a good price" and that the "price of the bananas are agreed with the producers".The Fairtrade Foundation is an organisation that campaigns for fair trading between farmers and retailers.They are now campaigning to raise the cost of bananas in the UK to help banana farmers in places like Ghana, Colombia and Ecuador.It said that small farmers and plantation workers were "collateral damage" in a supermarket price war. Supermarkets say they have to meet customer demand.Michael Gidney, chief executive of the Fairtrade Foundation said: "We are calling on the government to investigate... because it's unfair."A product that is worth billions of pounds in global trade relies on poverty-level income for the people who grow it."However, a government spokeswoman for the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills, said: "We fully recognise the positive impact that the fairtrade brand can have on consumers' shopping habits and in raising awareness of supply chain issues."However, it is not our policy to get involved in price-setting. The price that people pay at the checkout is down to the supermarkets.Some supermarkets only sell fairtrade bananas, but campaigners like Mr Gidney says more still needs to be done.
There are calls for stricter rules on buying added extras for online games, after a boy racked up a £4,000 bill while playing FIFA 14.His mum says there should be tighter controls on in-game purchases as it was too easy for him to spend a lot of money.The 13-year-old says he didn't realise how much he'd spent after buying several "player packs" with his mum's credit card, which was registered to the game.EA Sports who make FIFA 14, were contacted but they didn't want to comment.
A wannabe space explorer from the UK has taken the first step to landing his dream job.Despite only being seven-years-old, Dexter wrote a letter to NASA, the company he hopes will employ him.Dexter asked for advice on becoming an astronaut and told them he would like to go on a mission to Mars.To his happy surprise the space agency wrote back to encourage him in his pursuit.He wrote: 'My name is Dexter, I heard that you are sending two people to Mars and I would like to come but I am only 7.'NASA thanked Dexter for his letter and wrote: 'Just think - in a few years, you could be one of the pioneers that may help lead the world's activities for better understanding of our Earth and for exploring space.'The space agency also sent Dexter a poster of the NASA Curiosity Rover and space stickers as an extra treat.
Tensions are again growing in Ukraine as trouble spreads to the south of the country and the former president is reported to be in Russia.The latest trouble began when a group of armed men took over government buildings in Crimea, which is in the south of Ukraine.The group then raised Russian flags outside the building.This is a challenge to the new authorities in Ukraine, because they want the country to move away from Russia's influence.The areas around the occupied buildings have been sealed off by police.Crimea is the only Ukrainian region where most of the people that live there are Russian.Meanwhile, Ukraine's former President Viktor Yanukovych has fled to Russia, and the authorities there say they will protect him.Mr Yanukovych is wanted by the police in Ukraine over the deaths of dozens of protesters.This growing tension has led to both the Ukrainian and Russian leaders to announce that their militaries are 'on alert'.Arseniy Yatsenyuk was confirmed as Ukraine's new Prime Minister on Thursday afternoon.Voting has been taking place throughout the day to appoint new cabinet members.Mr Yatsenyuk said: "We ask our Russian partners to... stick to their obligations, we believe Russia would never intervene into Ukrainian domestic affairs and will refrain from any steps that would split Ukraine."We are committed to having Ukraine as one united country. We will punish anyone for separatism in Ukraine with all legal and constitutional means," he added.British Prime Minister David Cameron says he is concerned by what is happening in Crimea and has warned Russia that 'the world will be watching'.He said Russia should respect Ukraine's independence.The United States has also called on the Russian government not to get involved in Ukraine.US Defence Secretary Chuck Hagel told Russia "not to take any steps that could be misinterpreted, or lead to miscalculation, during a very delicate time".The Ukrainian population is still very much divided between people who are loyal to Russia and people who are pro-Europe.Tensions are again growing in Ukraine as trouble spreads to the south of the country and Russia vows to protect the country's former President.
The world's longest aircraft has just been unveiled today in Bedfordshire.The Hybrid Air Vehicle looks like a giant airship, but the high tech design means it also acts like one big aeroplane wing.It was originally sold to the US Army but now it's been bought back by the original British developers who are planning their first flight this year.It's a massive 92m long which is about 20m longer than the biggest airliners that currently exist.It costs about £60m and the flying machine will eventually be able to carry 50 tonnes at a time, and could potentially fit hundreds of people on board.
Budding space engineers are being invited to take one giant leap for mankind and sign up for top space training.The first degree-level apprenticeship in the field is being launched by the government. It aims to get more scientists and engineers into the UK space industry, which is seeing major growth.The programme will be provided by Loughborough College, the National Space Academy and the University of Leicester.The UK space sector is growing due to more demand for things like satellite TV and radio, mobile phone services, GPS navigation, air traffic management and climate change monitoring.Anu Ojha from the National Space Centre said: "The space sector is growing rapidly and needs highly skilled technicians in a number of engineering disciplines if it is to sustain that growth."Skills Minister Matthew Hancock said: "Ahead of National Apprenticeship Week, I would like to encourage young people to think about a career in this stimulating and fast-moving sector."
Russia has said it will keep troops in Ukraine until things there go back to normal.The country's Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said Russia was defending the human rights of Russian speaking people in the south of Ukraine.Russian troops appear to be in control of the Crimea region after sending them over the border. That despite western countries, like Britain, American and Germany warning that course of action was against international law.In response to Russian troops entering the country Ukraine has ordered all of it's military to get ready as fears grow over the potential for armed clashes.No shots have been fired but two large Ukrainian military bases are surrounded, with Russian troops standing alongside local Ukrainians who support them.Britain's Foreign Secretary William Hague is in the Ukraine trying to help stop the situation from getting worse, having described it as the "biggest crisis" to face Europe in the 21st Century.He's added his voice to those of US President Barack Obama in warning Russia that there will be consequences if it does not withdraw its troops from Crimea.Mr Lavrov said on Monday that Russian troops were needed in Ukraine "until the normalisation of the political situation".
A special memorial service to celebrate the life of former South Africa President Nelson Mandela has taken place at Westminster Abbey in London.Prince Harry and Prime Minister David Cameron were among the 2,000 people there to pay tribute to the man considered to be one of the world's most inspirational leaders.In his life he became South Africa's first black president and rid the country of the racist apartheid system.He died in December 2013, aged 95.Before the service plans plans to place a memorial stone in honour of him, outside the abbey, were announced.
Footy fans all over the world will be excited because it's only 100 days until the World Cup begins in Brazil.Preparations for the biggest football competition on the planet have been big news. There have been public protests about the amount of money being spent on the tournament.But football fans certainly seem up for it - Fifa has already received more than 3.5 million ticket requests.England's first group match against Italy has already sold out.
Nasa is planning an unmanned mission to a moon orbiting the planet Jupiter.A robot will travel to the icy surface of Europa, which space experts think could have the right conditions to offer a home to life.Europa is slightly smaller than the Earth's moon. Its surface is thought to be covered by a huge ocean of water, much of it frozen.A launch is expected in about 10 years. Nasa has set aside US$15 million (about £9 million) to plan the voyage.Jupiter is the largest planet in our solar system and fifth from the Sun.
Leaders from across the European Union are holding an emergency meeting in Brussels over the crisis in Ukraine.Some members, particularly from Eastern Europe, are pressing for tough measures.Other countries - led by Germany - want to try and come to an agreement with Russia.The meeting in Brussels comes a day after high-level talks between some western leaders and Russian foreign ministers in Paris.The talks made little progress, and now EU leaders seem to disagree on how to tackle the situation.But Britain's Foreign Secretary, William Hague, said efforts to break the deadlock would continue.Pro-Russian groups are still out in force in Crimea, in the south of Ukraine.
Scientists in Portugal have identified what they think may have been the largest predator ever to roam across 'Europe'.Fossil bones from the dinosaur were pulled from a cliff at Praia da Vermelha just north of Lisbon.It's official name is Torvosaurus gurneyi, and they believe it would have been 10 metres in length and weighed between 4-5 tonnes, with 10cm teeth.The scientists published their findings in a journal called Plos One.The group behind the study say the T. gurneyi was a two-legged, meat eating theropod, similar to the Tyrannosaurus rex,But T. gurneyi lived about 80 million years earlier, in the late Jurassic period, around 150 million years ago."The difference in age is striking - it's 80 million years", Prof Octavio Mateus, who co-authored the report, said."So, when T. rex walked on Earth, Torvosaurus was already a fossil," he added.Scientists have now unearthed a number of body parts belonging to Torvosaurus from Portugal's fossil-rich Lourinha rock formation. These specimens even include eggs and embryos.They say the Portuguese animal is distinct from the Torvosaurus already known from North America.That fossil "cousin", known as Torvosaurus tanneri, was found in rocks of similar age.It means that both animals must have shared a common ancestor deeper in time, before the Atlantic Ocean was fully opened."One hundred and fifty million years ago, Portugal was already separated from North America and this meant the mechanism of speciation could occur," said lead author Christophe Hendrickx. "And this is why we have a new species of Torvosaurus in Europe."One of the most impressive features of the T. gurneyi is its teeth - they are blade-shaped and measure more than 10cm long.This suggests it must have been at the top of the food chain when it stomped around that part of the world."Besides dinosaurs, we had turtles, crocodiles, those flying reptiles we call pterosaurs, and also small mammals," Mr Hendrickx said.Prof Mateus added: "This was an area with a lot of rivers, a lot of fresh water; and a lot of vegetation. So, it would have been good for herbivores, and with herbivores come some carnivores like Torvosaurus."Although a record-breaker for terrestrial Europe, Torvosaurus is not the largest predatory dinosaur known to science.Carcharodontosaurus, Giganotosaurus and Tyrannosaurus from other parts of the world were all bigger land animals.And of course there were marine predators in the Jurassic, such as plesiosaurs, that would have rivalled it for size.The largest known herbivore in Europe was probably a sauropod from Spain whose bones suggest it weighed in more than 40 tonnes.
Fifteen-year-old skier Millie Knight will carry the Great Britain flag at Friday's Paralympic Winter Games opening ceremony in Sochi.Millie Knight turned fifteen on the day she was chosen to compete in the Alpine Skiing sport for the Winter Games.The young athlete said: "This is the best feeling ever! I'm so excited, I can't wait to carry the flag at the Opening Ceremony and I'm honoured to be representing ParalympicsGB alongside all of the other nations."She added that her opportunity was a huge surprise and she is determined to make the team proud.ParalympicsGB Head of Mission Penny Briscoe said: "At just 15-years-old, this is a fantastic achievement."She continued: "Millie is a very talented athlete and she has exciting hopes for the future, therefore she is the perfect representative for the team on this occasion. I hope that she enjoys every second of the ceremony."Millie will be joined at the opening ceremony by her guide Rachael Ferrier in the the slalom and giant slalom events on 14 and 16 March.
Trick-roping was made famous in western movies and it usually takes tons of practice to get it right, but now a scientist says he's worked out a maths formula for creating the perfect lasso.Dr Pierre-Thomas Brun from Switzerland studied cowboys and their rope stunts to come up with the formula.Now he says anyone can teach themselves tricks like the famous 'flat loop' by studying his equation.He showed off his 'cowboy physics' to the American Physical Society.Trick roping came out of cowboys and cowgirls using rope to catch cattle, it then became a performance art form that was made famous in western movies in the 1920s and 1930s.It also became big competition at Mexican charreades, where traditional horsemen - charros - would take part.Some of the more fancy moves include the Merry-Go-Round, the Wedding Ring, and the Texas Skip - which is considered the most difficult.And while these moves look amazing and incredibly difficult Dr Brun says they are all down to a basic formula."Elastic threads are everywhere in our daily lives - from hair and textile yarns to DNA and undersea broadband cables. Even the honey you pour on your toast," said Dr Brun."All of these threads twist and coil according to the same equations as the cowboy's lasso."Studying fancy tricks like "spoke-jumping" and the "Kansas Tornado" could actually help in other areas too - like in the textile industry.To begin investigating, Dr Brun created a mathematical equation for the simplest trick - the flat loop."The physics boils down to a few simple rules," he explained."First, use the maximum amount of rope in your loop - about 70%."Then, move your hands with a slow frequency - about two hertz."And crucially - with each turn of the rope, roll it between your thumb and forefinger, to avoid accumulating twist.""Cowboy Craig" Ingram, a champion roper who performs around Colorado says: "Absolutely, there's a lot of science to trick roping: geometry, speed, timing and centrifugal forces,""But it's also more than science. It's about artistry. When I perform it's like dancing with a partner - I feel the fluidity of the rope spinning around me and I respond to its movements."Dr Brun agrees that, beyond the flat loop, the science quickly becomes more complicated.He added: "When Craig's tricks get more fancy, you have to come up with a more dynamic model."
They can walk, they can talk, and may soon be thinking for themselves.The way we work, play and live with robots is changing. But what have the experts missed?We want you to design a robot that you'd like to see get built. What would it look like? What job would it have? And how would it fit in to your life?This isn't a competition and there aren't any prizes, but it should be lots of fun! At the end of the week we'll put some of your designs to a top robotics expert.
A Malaysia Airlines plane has been missing since Saturday morning. A search is now on to try and find it.It took off from Kuala Lumpur, the capital city of Malaysia, but contact with the plane was lost during the flight.It's EXTREMELY rare for a plane to go missing like this.But when it does the search can be very complicated. Expert Chris Yates explains the technology used in the search and challenges the teams face.Planes, helicopters and ships from ten countries are all being used as part of the rescue operation.The planes can fly over large areas of land and sea, looking out for the missing aeroplane.Helicopters can cover a smaller area so if a closer look is needed somewhere, the helicopter can do this.Ships are also used. They cover distance slower than planes but are helpful when search teams need to take a closer look at areas of the sea.A large area is being searched, so the ships can share the task with the planes.The search team are racing against time - the longer it takes to find a plane the wider the area becomes in which the plane may have drifted in the water.Without knowing where the plane might be the area being searched is huge so it's taking a long time.A plane going missing like this is extremely rare. Chris Yates says there are about 4 billion flight tickets sold every year in the world, so an incident like this is extremely rare.
The people of New Zealand will be asked to vote on whether to change their national flag.Prime Minister John Key said the flag's design is from New Zealand's history and is no longer appropriate.The flag includes the Union flag - the United Kingdom's national flag, from a time when the country was controlled by the UK.Key said: "The flag is dominated by the Union Jack in a way that we ourselves are no longer dominated by the UK."
New Zealand could have a new flag after the Prime Minister announced a public vote on whether to change its design.Currently the flag features the Union flag - the UK's flag - but John Key, New Zealand's Prime Minister, thinks it should be removed.He says it represents a time when the country was controlled by the UK, as part of the British Empire.The stars on the flag represent the four brightest of the Southern Cross, a constellation, as it would be seen if you were looking into the night sky from New Zealand.It has been suggested a design for the new flag could feature the New Zealand fern, used by the national rugby team.The fern is a very important historical symbol at it represents the original tribal people of New Zealand - the Māori.How is a national flag designed?A vexillologist is someone who designs flags.A vexillographer is someone who studies flags and what their shapes, patterns, colours and images mean.Malcolm Farrow, President of the Flag Institute, thinks that flags play a bit part in a country's identity."A national flag is extremely important. It identifies a people and tells the story of a whole nation in one small rectangle," he says."In a multicultural society of different religions, backgrounds and languages it's the one thing that gives everyone a sense of identity and belonging in that country. It's the one thing a nation can unite under."Often, the different colours, shapes and symbols on a flag aren't just because they look nice - they represent something.Take for example one of the most famous and iconic flags in the world. The flag of the United States.It is famous for the 'stars and stripes' - but each part represents something.The flag has thirteen horizontal red and white stripes to represent the 13 original colonies that were formed when people first came to America.The stars represent the 50 states that make up the United States of America.South Sudan - new country, new flagAfter civil war in Sudan the country split into two. In 2011, the Republic of South Sudan was formed.South Sudan as a new country needed a new flag.This flag is similar to the old Sudanese flag but the colours here represent a new country after conflict.Black represents the South Sudanese people, white is peace after the fighting, red stands for the blood shed, green represents the land and farming, blue represents the waters of the river Nile. The star represents the unity of states making up Sudan.Malcolm Farrow, President of the Flag Institute, thinks designing a flag needs a lot of thought.He says, "Designing a great flag is very difficult, as you are trying to squeeze a whole nation into a small box.""A great flag has a bold, simple design to grab people's attention. It should have no words and a maximum of four strong contrasting colours. It shouldn't be fashionable and it must be distinctive from other flags."
Today marks 25 years since the World Wide Web was invented.It's creator, Sir Tim Berners-Lee has called for a new set of rules to protect the rights of its users.He says people who use the web should be able to do so without feeling that someone is monitoring their every move.The idea that the world wide web would end up playing such a huge role in people's lives would have seemed "crazy" 25 years ago, said Sir Tim.Last year, Ricky spoke to Sir Tim Berners-Lee about his incredible invention.He also found out the difference between the world wide web and the internet.
A 10-year-old boy from Iraq has been described as the country's youngest professional photographer.Ka-mar Hashim, who has won awards for his professional style, tours the streets of Baghdad to capture people and scenic spots.Hashim's father, a professional photographer, said he started to train his son a few years ago.As Hashim's skills improved, his talent was recognized by a local news agency, which agreed to publish his pictures!
A school has had a telling off by a schools inspector because some of the teachers weren't dressed smartly enough.Ofsted - England's schools watchdog - announced earlier this year that they would begin marking teachers on the way they are dressed.The head of Ofsted says a teacher's appearance can affect children's learning and attitude to work.
Fracking in the UK could harm wildlife by damaging their habitats, according to research by animal conservation groups.The report called Are We Fit to Frack? was done by six animal and nature organisations including the National Trust and the RSPB.But an organisation that represents the oil and gas industry said there are already plenty of rules in place to protect wildlife.Harry Huyton is head of energy and climate change at the RSPB, he said: "We have found that there are serious potential risks to the environment from fracking."He says there are risks of using water to extract the gas as this could lead to contamination, and it could also lead to well pads that could have an effect on wildlife.The report says several sites in the country should be made 'frack-free' in order to prevent this from happening.However, the organisation that represents the onshore oil and gas industry, says many of the points made in the report are already in place. It says the rules that govern the industry are already strict enough.Large areas of the UK have already been opened up for energy exploration, including in Lancashire, Cheshire, Yorkshire and Sussex.The government is deciding whether to allow more sites to open, and announcements should be made in the summer.
The battle over where the remains of Richard III should be buried starts in the High Court today.Judges will hear the case from both sides over the coming days - those who want the former king buried in York, and those who want him buried in Leicester. His remains were discovered in a car park in Leicester in 2012, and the University of Leicester want to bury them in the city.But a group involving the king's distant relatives, think he should be buried in York.They think that the king known as Richard of York would have preferred to be buried there.They also believe that, with an important figure such as a famous king, his family and even the public should be asked what they think.Richard III was only King of England for 26 months, when he was killed at the Battle of Bosworth in 1485.After centuries of mystery as to where his remains could be, the University of Leicester found bones they thought could be his in 2012.When it was discovered that the remains were that of the king, the Ministry of Justice and the University of Leicester decided he should be buried in Leicester.The decision was made because remains are usually reburied close to where they are discovered.But the The Plantagenet Alliance, a group including 15 distant relatives of Richard III, argue that this is a special case and want judges in the high court to decide on either York or Leicester.The row originally went to the court in November, but was put back until today.
The search continues for an aeroplane that has been missing since 8 March.The plane was flying from Kuala Lumpur, in Malaysia, to China's capital, Beijing when contact was lost.All week authorities have been searching for it, but no one yet knows exactly what happened. People are puzzled because it is extremely rare for something like this to happenOne thing we do know is that Flight MH370 left Kuala Lumpur International Airport on Friday afternoon (British time), and was due to arrive in Beijing six hours later.The last contact air traffic controllers had with the plane was about an hour into the flight when it reached the boundary between Malaysia and Vietnam.Authorities think it's unlikely that anyone survived and teams from around the world, including 42 ships and 39 aircrafts, are searching the sea for the plane.Early search efforts focussed on waters between Malaysia and Vietnam, but it was expanded to an area off Malaysia's west coast after Malaysian authorities reported that the plane could have turned back.On Wednesday, the search was widened again, to the Andaman Sea.A search this scale is very difficult because the teams have hundreds of square miles to cover and there are differing reports about the plane's last location.Doubts have been raised about how the search was carried out at first, and lots of different theories have been put forward about what may have happened to the plane.For now, it remains a mystery.
Prime Minister David Cameron has warned of more floods in England and Wales, despite a break in the stormy weather.He said: "Thankfully, it does appear that we will see less rain and wind over the next few days."However, after so much rain over recent weeks groundwater levels remain very high and in many places will continue to rise."Royal Engineers from the Army are going to inspect the country's flood defences.There are still over 150 flood warnings, including 16 severe ones - which mean there's danger to life.Almost one million homes had their power cut off over the past week. About 15,900 are still in the dark.
A large Winnie the Pooh teddy, a bike, a pair of jeans and a snake were some of the unusual items found in Scotland's sewers last year.Scottish Water said it had dealt with more than 40,000 blockages in the drains and sewer network.It said mobile phones, jeans, false teeth and underpants had all been flushed down toilets.It also found a pink bicycle, a fax machine and a big Winnie the Pooh teddy had been dumped down manholes.Scottish Water said it costs more than £7million a year to clear the blockages.
Scotland's First Minister, Alex Salmond, says that if an independent Scotland wasn't allowed to use the pound, it would hurt other UK businesses.On 18 September people living in Scotland will decide whether it should be a separate country.Last week, the man in charge of money for the UK government, George Osborne said Scotland wouldn't be allowed to share the pound with the rest of the UK if they voted to be independent.But Alex Salmond says that won't just harm business in Scotland, but in the rest of the UK as well.The Scottish government want to keep sharing the pound with England, Wales and Northern Ireland.They think that by using a different currency, it would cost UK companies more to do business with Scottish companies.Mr Salmond said he had added up the costs to UK businesses and: "They run to many hundreds of millions of pounds."He thinks this would mean they would do less business with each other. He's also written a letter to the Prime Minister David Cameron complaining about the decision to not let Scotland share the pound.But a spokesman for the Prime Minister said: "Mr Salmond is very good at penning letters but not so good at answering questions."
Three houses had to be evacuated because of fears they could collapse, after a huge sinkhole appeared in a town in North Yorkshire.The sinkhole, which is in a town called Ripon, is about 25 feet wide.Police, fire crews and engineers have been at the site to keep people safe and to try prevent the buildings from collapsing.A large crack has appeared in one of the houses nearest the sinkhole.A North Yorkshire police spokesman said: "The affected property and two houses nearby have been evacuated and a cordon has been put in place to protect members of the public. At this stage no injuries have been reported."There's been a spate of sinkholes in the past few weeks; residents were told to evacuate their homes in Hemel Hempstead in Hertfordshire after one appeared there, and a motorway was closed for several hours after a sinkhole opened up in the middle of it in Kent.The British Geological Survey says the north-east of England is the most likely area of the UK for sinkholes to appear, particularly around Ripon.The organisation says this is because the type of land in that area is soluble - which means it can dissolve over a period of time.
A Florida artist is facing criminal charges after he smashed a vase worth $1 million, or £600,000, in protest.The vase is by a Chinese artist called Ai Weiwei, and some of his work is currently on display at the Perez Art Museum in Miami.Maximo Caminero is a local artist and he says he dropped the vase because he was angry that the museum never showed art by locals.Mr Ai responded to the story saying his own work is never shown in China.
A super-fast passenger jet being built will replace its windows with screens displaying the world outside.Cameras on the outside of the jet will display pictures on the screens insideWindows on planes cause 'drag' which slows them down, but without windows this jet could easily reach supersonic speeds.The jet will be capable of travelling at over 1,100 mph and will get passengers from London to New York in half the time it takes normal planes.
The President of Ukraine, Viktor Yanukovych, has announced a deal to hold an election before the end of the year to try and settle the crisis in the country.Talks went on through the night, involving the Ukranian government, opposition leaders and European foreign ministers.Over the past two days dozens of people have been killed, and hundreds injured.People in Ukraine will now get the chance to vote for who should be president by the end of 2014.Protesters have been camped out in the main square in the capital city Kiev since November.It started because many people were upset with government decisions that were seen to make ties with Russia while moving away from links with Europe.The recent trouble began after police tried to remove the protesters and fighting broke out.
There are reports of more fighting in the Ukraine capital of Kiev despite the country's President announcing a peace agreement.According to reports, last night President Yanukovych promised to keep police forces from storming a protest camp in the capital's main square while peace talks went on.However, there has since been reports of more clashes between the protesters and police.The protests began three months ago over a decision for Ukraine not to strengthen the country's ties with the European Union.
An earthquake has been recorded around 1pm this afternoon underneath the Bristol Channel - did you feel it?The British Geological Survey, who record earthquakes, confirmed that it measured in at 4.1 on the Richter scale.There are reports it was felt in Somerset, Devon and Swansea. The centre was north of Devon and South of Gower in Wales.
This will probably come as no surprise... but we've had the wettest winter since records began.There's still a week to go until the season is officially recognised as over but the rainfall record has already been broken.The UK has had over 486 millimetres of rain between 1st December and 19th February.The record comes after several storms and rainfall over the past two months which saw severe floods across many parts of England.
In September 2014 people living in Scotland will get to vote about whether the country will become independent from the rest of the UK - but it's sparked a debate about money.The man in charge of money for the UK government, George Osborne said Scotland wouldn't be allowed to share the pound with the rest of the UK if they voted to be independent.But Scotland's First Minister, Alex Salmond, says he would want to keep the pound if that happens as he thinks it would be bad for both countries if it was to change.Well, this might seem confusing as Scotland already has different-looking money to England, but it is in fact all the same currency - pound sterling.Still confused? Nel has been doing a spot of shopping to find out more.
Wayne Rooney has signed a new deal with Manchester United that will make him the highest paid player in Premier League history.It keeps him at the club until 2019 and he'll earn a massive £300,000 a week.People had wondered about the striker's future, after rumours he was unhappy at Old Trafford and bids from Chelsea to try and sign him.Rooney has said: "I'm happy everything is now finalised and I can carry on concentrating on my football."
There are very mixed feelings in Belgium right now as the country welcomes two giant pandas from China.Xing Hui and Hao Hao are a gift from the authorities in China to celebrate good relations between the two countries.However, their arrival has caused a bit of a stir because they're set to live in a zoo in the south of the country.Why is that controversial?Belgium is roughly split into two parts - the Dutch-speaking areas in the north and the French-speaking areas in the south.Belgian Prime Minister Elio Di Rupo is a French-speaker and he lives in the south.He chose to let the pandas live in Pairi Daiza park, which is a zoo in the south of the country, which many people said was unfair.The prime minister has dismissed the claims, saying the Antwerp Zoo in the north, had made no official request to house the animals.The whole idea of pandas as gifts is known as 'panda diplomacy' and it has a long tradition in China.Dr Paul Jepson is a conservation expert from the University of Oxford who's researched panda diplomacy. He answered some questions for us…What is panda diplomacy?Pandas are native to China and they're seen as a national treasure of China; all living pandas, wherever they might be, are the property of the Chinese state.Panda diplomacy describes how the Chinese authorities let chosen governments keep pandas as a mark of respect between their countries.Having a panda can really boost the status of a zoo, as Edinburgh Zoo has seen since Tian Tian arrived in 2011.There aren't many zoos in the world that get to keep pandas - this is because it is up to China to decide which country gets them.Each zoo also has to pass strict tests to be allowed a panda, and it also costs a lot of money.Governments pay China to loan the panda; but then providing food and caring for the pandas is very expensive too.When did it all begin?The term 'Panda diplomacy' came about in the 1960s when China decided it should improve its international relations.At the time there was a lot of tension between the east and the west, mainly the former Soviet Union and the USA.The leader of China, Mao Zedong, gifted pandas to the Soviet Union, the USA and also the UK during historic state visits in the 1960s and 1970s.In the 1980s China moved away from 'gifting pandas' to countries, and instead started to loan them out.As international politics changed, Chinese authorities started to loan pandas to countries that they wanted to have good trade relations with.Edinburgh's pandas marked a trade deal involving Scotland selling China's salmon, land-rovers and offshore drilling technology.According to Belgian news reports, the pandas heading there in 2014 are part of a trade deal for advanced pollution technology.Do any other countries have a similar thing?Not in the same way as China and its pandas. Over the centuries many countries have gifted exotic wildlife to other world cities as a token of friendship.This is not so common nowadays because most exotic wildlife is bred by, and exchanged between, zoos.What's distinct about pandas is that no one else other than the Chinese government is allowed to own one.
Ukraine's President Viktor Yanukovich is reported to have left the capital city Kiev and government buildings there have been abandoned.It comes after days of clashes between government forces and protestors who want the president out.Since Tuesday, 77 people have died in protests and over 500 have been injured.A deal was signed on Friday aimed at ending the unrest, but thousands of protestors are still on the streets.It's also been announced that the opposition leader Yulia Tymoshenko is to be released from prison.She was sentenced to seven years in prison for abuse of power. But her supporters say it was because President Yanukovych wanted his main opponent out of the way.The protests in Ukraine first started in November when President Yanukovych rejected a deal with the EU, instead wanting closer ties with Russia.
In Ukraine the whereabouts of President Yanukovych remains unclear, while a controversial former prime minister has urged protests to continue.The president has not been seen since Friday and after being removed by MPs on Saturday, it's thought he's fled the capital city Kiev.Ukraine's parliament voted to hold a presidential election on 25 May, but President Yanukovych has vowed not to stand down. The vote came after police stopped guarding presidential buildings.On Saturday the former Prime Minister Yulia Tymoshenko - who was sent to prison by President Yanukovych in 2011 - was also freed by parliament.She spoke to thousands of people in Kiev and urged them to continue protesting. But her arrival divided opinion and some people didn't want to listen to her.Since Tuesday, 88 people have died in the violent clashes between protestors and police.
A temporary president has been appointed in Ukraine, following months of protests in the country.President Viktor Yanukovych was forced out of power on Saturday. A warrant has now been issued for his arrest.The stand-in leader, Olexander Turchynov, says he wants to strengthen the country's relationship with Europe.Politicians are meeting to start working on a new government. They've got until Tuesday to do so.The stand-in government want Viktor Yanukovych to be arrested, because dozens of people were killed when security forces tried to break up protests last week.It's still not clear where he is though, after he left the Ukraine capital Kiev over the weekend.
The Sochi 2014 Winter Olympics - with all it's medals, jumps and speedy skating - have now drawn to a close.But did the Games inspire you? Perhaps it made you want to try a new sport or get better at one that you already take part in?Or maybe the hard work and determination of the athletes has inspired you take up a different sport or hobby?
Daniel Radcliffe's hair caused quite a stir at a recent award ceremony.The Harry Potter star showed off his new shoulder-length bob at the awards in London.He won best actor for his performance in The Cripple Of Inishmaan, but it was his hair that stole the limelight!The new do has been created using hair extensions and it's all for his new role as Igor in the film, Frankenstein.
The theft of a giant mango hit headlines all over the world this week, but it turns out it was all a BIG stunt!The seven-tonne fruit is made of fibreglass and usually found standing in Bowen, northern Australia.When it could no longer be seen towering over the town, people said it had been stolen...But others got suspicious when they heard police weren't investigating.Then a local radio station took a call from listener who said the mango had been borrowed by a chicken fast-food restaurant chain.The caller said the fruit was lying on its side near to the Bowen Tourism Center and it had been covered in cloths.Cheeky!The fast-food chain in question said they will soon reveal why they did the stunt, and the mango will be put back in its rightful place.
Kevin Pietersen being dropped by England is big news in the world of sport - but why?Well for nearly 10 years Pietersen has been England's most talented, inspirational and feared batsman.He's England's top run scorer of all time, racking up nearly 14,000 runs for his country.But there's another side to the man known as 'KP', throughout his career Pietersen has been criticised off and on the field for his behaviour.Over the years he's upset teammates, coaches, journalists and fans and has been accused of not playing for his team and being too selfish.Pietersen is unbelievably talented, and can play shots that not many other players could even dream of, but that has got him in trouble.People have said he's been too flamboyant, and has lost his wicket to easily because he's tried to score runs quickly rather than staying in and helping the team.When he first started playing for England he attracted attention for his outrageous hairstyle as much as his batting.After England's disastrous Ashes tour of Australia this winter, KP got more criticism than others because people said he got out too easily and let the team down.He's also fallen out with lots of people off the field.He's left two county teams with rumours he'd fallen out with teammates.In 2009 he had to give up being England captain because he tried to get rid of the team head coach at the time.In 2012 he was dropped from England's one day team for sending text messages to South Africa players criticising his England teammates!But every time, he was forgiven and let back into the team, because he's so good!He's scored 23 hundreds for England and was named as the player of the tournament when England won the World Twenty20 in 2010.And his fans have said the attention he receives is a good thing - that is makes things easier for his teammates, and teams focus too much of getting him out.In the end though, the England team management ran out of patience, and one of the greatest England players ever won't be batting for England again.
YouTube has warned it will clamp down on users who buy 'fake views' to make their videos look more popular than they really are.With 100 hours of video added to the site every minutes it can be hard to get noticed, so some people buy fake views.There are many companies that will sell YouTube views, likes or comments for a fee.Most videos have genuine views but the website wants to crack down on the small number that don't.
More rain is on the way for parts of Britain that have already been battered by storms.The Met Office has more severe weather warnings for rain for southern and south-west England and south Wales from Thursday afternoon.There are also about 60 flood warnings in England and Wales and more than 200 flood alerts.In Scotland, there are flood warnings in Tayside, and a number of flood alerts.
A group of MPs say the government's plans for a 5p charge on plastic carrier bags in England are a "complete mess".Last September, Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg announced the plans, highlighting the threat of plastic bags to marine life and the countryside.But the MPs say the scheme is too complicated because there are so many different rules, for example only larger shops having the 5p charge and not smaller shops.They say that the schemes in Ireland and Wales are a lot simpler and have made a big difference to the environment.Over eight billion disposable carrier bags are used in England every year.
There was British success in the first event of Sochi 2014, as snowboarder Jamie Nicholls qualified for the final of the slopestyle.The 2014 Winter Olympics might not officially start until Friday, but a few events have already begun.First to get going was the slopestyle - a new snowboarding event in which boarders try tricks down a series of ramps.Nicholls' second go was so good he won a place in the final on Saturday.
Primary schools in England are going to share an extra £150m per year sports funding until 2020, Prime Minister David Cameron has announced.The direct funding scheme for school sport, which was announced last year, is going to be extended for a further five years, if Cameron's party wins the next elections.The money will go straight to head teachers, who will decide how best to use it for sport to encourage more kids to play sport.Mr Cameron said: "Sport is so important because it encourages children to be active, lead a healthy lifestyle, make friends and, of course, have fun."We asked you to send in questions for the Prime Minister and he has been answering them with Martin.The National Union of Teachers, who look after primary school teachers, said they welcomed the extra money, but because lots of primary schools don't have specialist PE teachers, the extra money doesn't add up to much.And a spokesman from the Labour party criticised the government's record on school sport saying: "David Cameron has jeopardised our Olympic legacy by removing the requirement that primary children do two hours of sport per week."
It looks like a paint bomb has crash-landed with the surface of Mars creating a splatter effect...But Nasa says it's the effect of a meteorite hitting the surface of the planet.A Nasa spacecraft which is orbiting the planet when it spotted the new crater.The hole is about 30m (100ft) in diameter, and it's surrounded by a blast zone of debris punched out of the ground by the meteorite impact.The explosion that caused it was powerful enough to toss out debris as far as 15km (9.3 miles) away!The image was taken by the Mars Reconnaissance Orbiter's HiRise camera.
The oldest footprints ever discovered outside of Africa have been found in Norfolk.Thought to be 800,000 years old, the footprints were found on the beach in Happisburgh.It's got scientists excited, because it's evidence of the earliest ever humans that lived in Europe.To find footprints like this is so rare there's only been three three older discovered anywhere in the world - and they were in Africa.So the team that first spotted them on the beach last May, are pretty happy.Dr Nick Ashton of the British Museum said the find was, "one of the most important discoveries, if not the most important discovery that has been made on [Britain's] shores".They were revealed during a low tide, and the team from the museum were able to video them and then analyse what they were.
People living in flood-hit areas in Somerset have criticised the agency responsible for dealing with flooding.The man in charge of the Environment Agency is visiting the area for the first time since the floods began.Local people say the Environment Agency hasn't done enough to protect their homes and farms.Lord Smith, defended the agency: "I'm very proud of the work the Environment Agency and its staff have been doing right round the country".Residents say he's taken to long too come to the area to see the problems for himself.In the village of Moorland, families were stranded when they woke surrounded by miles of floodwater.Royal Marines were called in the early hours to help hand out sandbags to try and stop it spreading further.More rain has been forecast for the coming days and much of the county is difficult to access because of the flood water.
Eric Pickles, the man in charge of the government's flood defence, has said it 'made a mistake' by not dredging the flood-hit Somerset Levels.Dredging is a process which removes silt from river channels so that water can flow through.It hasn't happened in the area since the 1990's according to Prime Minister David Cameron.Farmers had asked for dredging at least six months ago, but money wasn't given for it.Mr Pickles has apologised to those who have been affected by the flooding.Weather and flood warnings are still in place for much of the south-west UK.
Water in the second largest river in the UK, the river Thames, is at the highest level ever recorded.Gauges were installed along the river in the 1980s and 1990s, and they have not recorded water levels as high as they are now.The people who deal with flooding in the UK, say they expect it to rise even more over the next couple of days and have warned of flooding.Areas of Somerset in the South West of England have been flooded for weeks.With more heavy rain expected over the next couple of days, people are worried that the Thames could cause flooding in parts of Surrey and Berkshire.If the levels of the Thames, the famous river that runs through London, rise much more, thousands of homes could be at risk.Over the last couple of days, politicians have been arguing over who is to blame for the flooding.Some politicians have said that the Environment Agency, who look after things like flood defence, haven't done enough to prepare for the heavy rain the UK has seen this winter.Some MPs have said that the Agency should have done more 'dredging' to stop rivers bursting their banks.But then the Environment Agency and other experts argue that dredging wouldn't stop the flooding.
Later today MPs will decide whether or not to back a ban on smoking in cars when children are present.If MPs think the ban is a good idea, the health secretary will get the power to bring in a ban in England.But that doesn't mean there would be an immediate change in the law.Smoking in cars carrying children is not allowed in countries including Australia, Canada, South Africa and the US.
The President of Kazakhstan has suggested changing the country's name to encourage more tourists to visit.He suggested Kazakh Eli, or Kazakh Nation, would be a better name - although he would only change things after a discussion with the people that live there.
Smoking in cars with children in them is likely to be made illegal in England and Wales.MPs voted to support a ban, which means the government is now able to make it law.It's now up to cabinet ministers to decide whether it should be introduced. But some people say it's a step too far.The vote - passed by 376 votes to 107 - also gave the Welsh government the power to bring in a ban in Wales.Penny Woods, chief executive of the British Lung Foundation, said: "Having campaigned on this issue for many years, we're absolutely delighted that MPs have backed the ban on smoking in cars carrying children. This could prove a great leap forward for the health of our nation's children."But Simon Clark, director of smokers' group said smoking in cars with children was "inconsiderate", but the government shouldn't be passing laws that tell people how to behave in their own private places.In Scotland, some MPs are looking at ways to bring in a ban this year, and in Northern Ireland ministers are going to look into the issue too.
A 15 foot deep sinkhole has appeared in the middle of a motorway in Kent, causing travel chaos.It appeared in the central reservation area of the M2 near Sittingbourne, and it measures about 16 ft (5 metres) by 6 ft (2 m).Engineers from the Highways Agency - that looks after the UK's motorways - are repairing it, and trying to work out what caused it.The motorway was closed in both directions while this took place.Sarah Fey, a structural engineering expert said it might have happened because the land there us made up of chalk and limestone which can erode with lots of rain.She said: "Chalk and limestone is alkaline and rainwater is acidic - if you put acidic water on it, it dissolves over a period of time which can happen over a millenia".Professor Amir Allani, professor of civil engineering at Greenwich University, said recent heavy downpours and flooding could be to blame, and heavy traffic would have made the surface weak too, leading to the collapse.
For the first time ever, two athletes have shared the gold medal at the Winter Olympics.Dominique Gisin and Tina Maze made history in the women's downhill skiing, when they finished in exactly the same time!Britain's Chemmy Alcott finshed down in 19th in her fourth games, some way off the joint gold.Both skiers will take home a medal. Back in 1998, two skiers shared the silver in the Super G event.
The UK is being battered by super strong winds, and forecasters are warning that more flooding, snow and heavy rain are all expected,The Met Office has issued a rare red warning for winds of up to 100mph in west Wales and north-west England.A red warning means that there is a danger to life and action must be taken immediately.There are also sixteen severe flood warnings in the UK.And the weather is affecting lot's of different parts of the UK. All schools in Pembrokeshire in Wales have been closed for the day.BBC forecasters say a month's worth of rainfall is expected to fall in parts of southern England over the next few days.The Met Office said: "Winds of this strength can cause widespread structural damage, bringing down trees and also leading to loss of power supplies."In addition, large waves are likely to affect some coasts. The public should take action to alter their travel arrangements during this spell of storm force winds."Snow and ice have also hit some parts of the north and west of Northern Ireland and have been making driving conditions difficult.On Tuesday PM David Cameron said that money was "no object" for the flood relief effort. Meanwhile, the prime minister has chaired a meeting of Cobra in Downing Street and was told that thousands of military personnel were available at short notice to give extra support.
The Met Office, who monitor the weather, have declared a red weather warning... but what does that mean?Well, a warning is issued when the Met Office think people need to be careful because of the weather - and this time it's because of the wind.They can range from yellow - which is the lowest warning, up to red - which is the most serious.Red means people need to do something to stay safe from the weather, because it's very dangerous.In fact, if a red warning is issued, it means the met office think the weather is so bad, it's a risk to people's lives.They are very rare, and are only issued in the most extreme circumstances. Usually only once or twice a year.They can apply to lots of different conditions like wind, rain and snow. Damage to buildings and the environment can be expected if a red warning is in place.Everyone in areas where the weather is bad, must listen to the emergency services and not take any unnecessary risks. If it's safe to stay at home, they should do wherever possible.
Experts are warning that flooding in large parts of southern England and in some areas of Wales, could last for months - because the groundwater is so high.But what does this mean?Well, Newsround asked a groundwater expert to explain it to us.Emily Crane works for the British Geological Survey (BGS) - an organisation made up of Earth scientists such as geologists.Emily says: "The weather forecasts suggest we still have more rain to come, which means that groundwater levels could rise further before they start to fall again. This would not be good news for people struggling with flooded houses, roads, farms and so on."She added: "Groundwater flooding takes longer to go away than flooding from rivers. River flooding tends to pass in days or weeks, while groundwater flooding usually stays around for weeks or even months. "Groundwater is found deep underground absorbed in rocks and held in the spaces between them.When it rains any water that isn't used up in rivers or by plants and trees, continues its journey downward to rock layers beneath the soil.This is where it becomes groundwater.The Environment Agency describes groundwater as the 'largest available reservoir of fresh water'.When it rains too much the groundwater can rise until it reaches the surface.This tends to happen when there is a lot of rain over a long period of time.Basically the reserves deep underground become too full and the surrounding rivers, trees and plants don't absorb it fast enough.This leads to water coming up into rivers making them overflow, it gets pushed up through natural springs and it comes up through the land too.Often when people talk of groundwater flooding they are describing the water that has been pushed up through the land.This happens where the rocks are able to pass water - these kind of rocks are called 'aquifers' and they are described as 'permeable'.This basically means they are rocks that can easily pass water through them.
More than 100,000 homes are without power after another storm battered the UK last night; this time bringing 100 mph winds to parts of Wales and northern England.Areas like Blackpool in the north of England and Aberystwyth in Wales felt the full force of the winds.Buildings have been destroyed, trees have come down and many roads are closed.Rail operators began closing lines and cancelling trains on Wednesday evening as the winds picked up; many services are still not running.The Met Office said a wind gust of 112mph was recorded at Great Dun Fell, in the Pennines.The Energy Networks Association, that represents UK energy companies, said about 130,000 properties were without power.Around 70,000 of those homes and buildings were in Wales.Thousands of homes in the West Midlands and Cheshire were without power too, and in flood-hit areas about 3,000 buildings still had no power.Energy companies said engineers were working through the night to restore power.Forecasters say Thursday will be much calmer than 'wild Wednesday' but warned there would still be rain, sleet and ice in some parts.The Met Office still has yellow warnings in place for some parts of the country - this means 'be aware'.The Environment Agency has issued 16 severe flood warnings, and about 400 less serious flood warnings and alerts, mostly in southern England and the Midlands.But weather experts warn things could get bad again on Friday for many areas, as more high winds are forecast, and there is a chance of snowfall in Northern Ireland, southern Scotland and northern England.
Forecasters say parts of southern England are in for a real downpour from Friday - in fact, they say a month's worth of rain could fall in just a few days.Severe flood warnings remain in place along the River Thames, and there are fears flooding could spread along the River Severn and the River Wye.Emergency crews, Environment Agency workers and council staff are having to work around the clock to fight the flood water and give people the support they need.More than a thousand homes have been evacuated, mainly in the Thames Valley area.Nel met Olivia and Hannah from Wraysbury in Berkshire who are getting ready for the worst.
If Scotland decides to become independent from the rest of the UK, they won't be able to share the pound with England, Wales and Northern Ireland, according the man in charge of money for the UK government, George Osborne.On 18 September 2014 people living in Scotland will vote on whether they want it to be a separate country.One of the things Scotland, England, Wales and Northern Ireland all share at the moment is the money they spend - called their currency.People in every part of the United Kingdom use pounds to buy things.The Scottish government wants to carry on sharing the pound with the other nations, even if they become independent.Scottish Deputy First Minister Nicola Sturgeon says that carrying on sharing the pound would be a good idea: "there are some very strong, practical, hard-headed reasons why continuing to use the same currency is in the interests of people across the rest of the UK."But the UK Chancellor, George Osborne, said today that won't happen: "If Scotland walks away from the UK, it walks away from the UK pound."
There's celebrations in China as news from the moon suggests the country's rover nicknamed Jade Rabbit is working again.The country's first lunar explorer shutdown in January because of mechanical problems.Engineers on Earth now have communication again from the vehicle, but it still needs fixing, according to Chinese state media.Xinhua news quoted Pei Zhaoyu, a spokesman for the moon mission, as saying: "The rover stands a chance of being saved now that it is still alive."The rover was designed to roam the moon's surface for three months while surveying for natural resources and sending back data.But it ran into problems as it was shutting down in preparation for the lunar night, which lasts two weeks.It touched down on the moon's surface on December 15 2013.
There's been a row over changes to the vow that brownies and guides make when they sign up.Last year Girlguiding UK said they would change the vow so members no longer have to pledge their devotion to God.This decision upset some people, and the Church of England campaigned against the change.Now, members who believe in God can pledge to God before they say the standard vow if they wish to do so.Why the change?Girlguiding UK said they needed a new vow that includes non-religious members and those who follow other faiths.It was replaced with a new promise to "be true to myself and develop my beliefs".It's the first time God isn't mentioned in the oath since Guides began in 1910.Brownies and Guides currently vow to "to love my God, to serve my Queen and my country" - this has been changed too.The new promise I promise that I will do my best To be true to myself and develop my beliefs To serve the Queen and my community To help other people and To keep the Guide (Brownie) lawThe consultation about the vow was carried out in 2013 and involved nearly 44,000 Girlguiding UK members and non-members.A debate was held at the Church of England General Synod that led to the new promise.A Girlguiding spokeperson said: A Girlguiding spokesperson said: "Girlguiding remains fully committed to having one Promise for all.""If a member chooses to do so it is permissible for her to provide the context of her own belief before making our Promise."They added: "To be clear, this is not an alternative Promise or additional line within the Promise. Rather it is a distinct personal statement, separate to our Promise."
Stormy weather is due to return to the UK again today, while thousands of homes are flooded, and even more are without power.Energy companies say around 25,000 properties are still without electricity, and engineers have worked through the night to try reconnect them.The Met Office has issued yellow and amber warnings for rain, wind and snow.There are 17 flood warnings in parts of Gloucestershire, Berkshire, Surrey and Somerset.BBC Weather's Darren Bett said the severe weather was "hopefully the last in a long line" to hit the UK.But he said today the winds will get stronger as the day goes on - especially along the south coast, with gusts reaching up to 80 mph.Very high winds are forecast for Friday evening and Saturday morning, as is rain, while Sunday should be "mostly dry".Next week's weather is not expected to be as wet or windy as in recent days.
A sinkhole has appeared near houses in a road in Hemel Hempstead, Hertfordshire.The hole is nine metres wide and six metres deep, and was spotted on Saturday morning.People living in 17 homes close to the site in Oatridge Gardens have been evacuated.Council officials and engineers are working with police to check out the situation.A Hertfordshire Police spokesperson said: "The hole, which is in a residential cul-de-sac, has mainly affected the road. However, 17 properties have been evacuated for the safety of residents in the area."
Canterbury Cathedral's first all-girl choir has come together to sing.Canterbury has been an important place of worship for the Church of England for more than a thousand yearsRecords show its choirs have been male-only for almost a 1000 years but now the girls are making their debut.40 auditions were held to find 16 choristers aged 12 to 16 and the competition was tough.Nel went to see the girls in rehearsal.
Heavy rain, ice and snow are expected across the UK this week.Showers of rain and hail are predicted on lower ground, which could turn to ice. There may be snow on higher ground, especially in Scotland.Heavier showers may even bring thunder and there could be gales along coastal areas, making it feel rather chilly.There are several flood warnings in south-west England, where heavy rain is forecast. The area is still recovering from recent flooding.Farmers in the Somerset area have blamed the Environment Agency for the recent floods there.They reckon officials didn't do enough by sorting out the rivers.But the agency say that doing so still would not have prevented the floods.
Ancient European cavemen may have had blue eyes and been intolerant to milk, according to a new scientific study.A team of researchers in Barcelona made the claims after extracting DNA from the tooth of a 7,000-year-old skeleton they found frozen in a cave.The study also suggests strong links between European and Africa cavemen. Scientists at the Institute of Evolutionary Biology in Barcelona say the caveman they analysed had a mix of European and African traits, with dark skin and blue eyes.Professor Carles Lalueza-Fox, who led the study, said: "The biggest surprise was to discover that this individual possessed African versions in the gene that determine the light pigmentation of current Europeans. He possessed the genetic variations that produce blue eyes in current Europeans."The study also suggested this particular caveman was lactose intolerant, meaning he'd struggle to drink milk because he was bad at digesting starch.
Space scientists in China are trying to repair the damaged Jade Rabbit Moon rover.Media reports suggest the exploration vehicle is experiencing mechanical difficulties caused by the Moon's tough surface.The rover landed in December as part of China's Chang'e-3 mission - the first "soft" landing on the Moon since 1976.It was expected to operate for around three months.Earlier this month, the Beijing Aerospace Control Centre said that Jade Rabbit, also known as Yutu, had successfully explored the surface of the Moon with its mechanical arm.But it's believed a malfunction occurred on Saturday. It was just before the rover was due to become dormant for 14 days during the lunar night, when there would be no sunlight to power the rover's solar panel.Space expert, Dr Katherine Joy from the University of Manchester told Newsround how difficult it is to fix things in space.
The victims of the Holocaust in World War Two are being remembered for Holocaust Memorial Day.Six million Jews, and other people, were killed in prisons called concentration camps during the war, between 1939 and 1945.They were sent there because Germany's Nazi leader, Adolf Hitler, thought certain groups of people were inferior.But thousands of children managed to escape and were sent to the UK, including Ingrid and HenryThat have been speaking to Newsround about their experiences.
More than one billion smartphones were sold across the world last year.Samsung phones were the top sellers with US giant Apple in second.Market research company IDC say its the first time more than one billion smartphones were sold in a single year.They put the growth down to larger screens, lower costs and countries like India and China snapping up loads of cheaper handsets that cost around £100 or less.
The Ukraine parliament has voted to scrap a controversial anti-protest law.It was brought in two weeks ago to try and stop anti-government demonstrations but the introduction of the law angered protestors.Under the law, protestors were banned from wearing helmets and blockading public buildings.Ukraine's Prime Minister, Mykola Azarov, has also offered to resign, alongside his cabinet members, in order to satisfy protestors.When did the protests start?Protests in the capital Kiev started in November last year but have become more violent in recent weeks with unrest spreading to other parts of the country and some protesters taking over government buildings.The unrest started because the government wouldn't sign a deal bringing the country closer to the European Union, choosing stronger ties with Russia instead.They then introduced controversial anti-protest law and the clashes with the police got worse.At least five people have been killed in violence linked to the protests.
Two Earth-observation cameras have been successfully installed on the outside of the International Space Station (ISS).The cameras will be used to stream video of our planet on the web.Russian astronauts completed the attachment in an amazing six-hour spacewalk on Monday.Astronauts had aborted an attempt to install the cameras last December due to difficulties.The Canadian company Urthecast, who will stream the footage, confirmed that both cameras were passing data to the ground following this installation attempt.The resolution of the cameras is so high, large crowds and moving vehicles on Earth will be visible.The US space agency NASA will be launching another two cameras to the station later this year.One will study ocean winds and storms; the other will examine small particles in the atmosphere that can influence the climate.
Buckingham Palace should be opened up to the public whenever the Queen isn't at home, according to a group of MP's.They say more money is needed to tackle repairs and make improvements to royal palaces.Currently, Buckingham Palace is open to the public 78 days a year but MPs say it could be opened up on more days.A Buckingham Palace spokesperson said money is allocated according to priorities and has resulted in spending public money more efficiently.
More people need to be aware when passing level crossings, according to Network Rail.In 2010 the company set themselves a target of closing ten per cent of crossings in Britain.They've spent £130 million in the last couple years improving safety and closed over 750 level crossings ahead of schedule.Despite this, ten people were killed when passing them last year.Leah's been finding why they're so dangerous.
The first picture showing Doctor Who star Peter Capaldi in costume, has been released.The new Doc will wear a dark blue coat, dark blue trousers, white shirt and black shoes.Talking about the outfit, Capaldi described it as: "Simple, stark, and back to basics. No frills, no scarf, no messing, just 100% Rebel Time Lord."
Some of the "most vulnerable" Syrian refugees will be allowed to temporarily stay in the UK, Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg says.He said the most at-risk people, including those who are elderly and disabled, would get priority.The government cannot say exactly how many Syrians will come to the UK but it expects the number of refugees accepted to be in the hundreds.Other countries have signed up to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) scheme, but the UK has drawn up its own plan. Germany has agreed to welcome 10,000 Syrian refugees as part of the UNHCR plan.The UN says this is the single biggest refugee crisis of all time.Mr Clegg said: "…as the conflict continues to force millions of Syrians from their homes, we need to make sure we are doing everything we can."We are one of the most open-hearted countries in the world and I believe we have a moral responsibility to help.He added: "Sadly we cannot provide safety for everyone who needs it, but we can reach out to some of those who need it most."On top of that, we'll continue to support the peace talks currently taking place in Geneva, because only a political resolution between the Assad regime and Syrian opposition will provide a permanent end to the suffering."Mr Clegg said: "They will be here for a certain period of time and what we of course want and I suspect they will want as well… is to return eventually to Syria, when as I think everybody hopes normality finally is restored to the country."The UK government has been criticised for not offering this kind of support earlier.Amnesty International UK director Kate Allen said: "This move is long overdue but of course it's never too late to do the right thing."The government's line on this has been shameful, with months of refusal and weak arguments."The UNHCR said it would help the UK to identify the most vulnerable people to help.
US President Barack Obama has given his State of Union speech, setting out his priorities for the next 12 months.In the address at Capitol Hill in Washington he told millions of Americans that inequality in the country has got worse, and that his main aim will be to change this.He wants to tackle unequal pay between men and women, raise the minimum wage for some workers and he wants more families to have better chances in life.Mr Obama said: "Let's make this a year of action,""…America does not stand still - and neither will I, so wherever and whenever I can take steps without legislation to expand opportunity for more American families, that's what I'm going to do."It's hoped this speech will help improve the president's approval ratings which have been at their lowest since he got the top job five years ago. Obama was re-elected after his first term in power last year, and the next US election will be in 2016.The president's opponents say his plans could lead to fewer jobs and that he needed to focus on lowering taxes.The Republican Party, called on Mr Obama to take action "by empowering people, not making their lives harder with unprecedented spending, higher taxes, and fewer jobs."Republican Kentucky Senator Rand Paul said: "Economic growth will come when we lower taxes for everyone," he said. "Government spending doesn't work."
Protestors are still out in force in Kiev in Ukraine after the Prime Minister resigned; they're now calling for the President to step down too.Prime Minister Mykola Azarov and his cabinet offered to resign amid clashes over anti-protest laws.It was brought in two weeks ago to try and stop anti-government demonstrations but it has now been removed.The campaigners want President Yanukovych to resign too."Having Prime Minister Azarov resign means that we have achieved something," said Myrolav, a protester from Kiev, "Yanukovych needs to do the same thing now, as we are not leaving until victory."The president and parliament say they want to resolve the situation and bring the protests to an end but can't do that unless protestors agree to leave the streets and buildings they're occupying.The protests began after President Viktor Yanukovych turned toward Russia for a bailout loan instead of signing a deal with the European Union.The campaigns have grown and are now about fighting for more human rights, less corruption and more democracy.
The UK's native red squirrel has long been endangered but a new report suggests they're thriving on an island in Scotland.A team of researchers found evidence that the little critters living on the Isle of Arran are "fit and healthy" which is good news for the future of the species.Arran is one of 19 red squirrel hotspots in Scotland, where there are no grey squirrels to threaten their habitat.Grey squirrels were introduced to the UK from North America in the 19th century, and since then they have threatened the livelihood of the red squirrels.The researchers, from the University of Edinburgh's Royal School of Veterinary Studies trapped and examined 21 of the animals last summer, as well as looking at the remains of 16 red squirrels killed on the roads.They found no sign of squirrelpox, a virus often carried by grey squirrels which is usually fatal to the red species.Professor Anna Meredith, who worked on the survey, said: "Some populations of red squirrels have been found to have high levels of diseases, and lack of genetic diversity could also affect their health, so we're delighted to find that Arran's red squirrels are fit and healthy."
Millions of children in poorer countries can't read or do simple sums according to a United Nations report.The report says this is because there are around 57 million children who don't have a school to go to.The UN's Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (Unesco) says in some areas it could take 70 years before there are enough primary school places for every child.It's now calling on the world's governments to help change this.
A plan to ban smoking in cars carrying children in England has been backed by the House of Lords.It was put forward by the Labour party, the government's opposition, who said it was about "protecting children".Government ministers said they preferred to run awareness campaigns instead.If a ban becomes law, then it'll be a crime for a driver if he/she doesn't stop any smoking when children are inside the vehicle.WGuide: What is the House of Lords?The ban plan will now go to a vote in the House of Commons.Supporters are worried about the health effects of passive smoking, which is when cigarette smoke is breathed in by people close to the smoker.Those against the ban think it should be up to individual people to decide what they do in their own cars.It's already against the law to smoke in cars that are used for work, as well in workplaces and most enclosed public spaces such as cafes and restaurants.This ban would only be for England. Any similar ban in Wales, Scotland or Northern Ireland would have to be decided by each nation's own devolved government.
The number of bats in Europe has gone up by over 40 percent thanks to conservation efforts.The largest ever study of its kind counted and analysed bats hibernating at 6,000 sites in nine European countries.The European Environment Agency (EEA) found numbers had increased by 43 percent between 1993 and 2011.European bat populations shrank, particularly during the second half of the 20th century.The decline was blamed on intensive farming, disappearing bat habitats, and toxic chemicals used in treating roof timbers where they roost.Despite this good news, the study showed that bat species are still under threat.They have a slow rate of reproduction so their numbers can decline very rapidly.They are also extremely sensitive to environmental change. Differences in temperature, for instance, can affect their ability to forage, reproduce and hibernate.EEA Executive Director, Hans Bruyninckx, said: "Many bat species are still endangered, so preserving their habitats is still an important priority."
More heavy rain is expected across southern England today.Huge waves called coastal surges are expected to hit towns and villages by the sea.Strong winds and high tides are expected on the west coast of England and Wales.Somerset is one area that's already been flooded. BBC reporter Andrew Plant said people there have been warned that things could get even worse.The banks of the River Parrett have been lined with big sandbags to try and hold back the water and stop further flooding.
The first round of Syria peace talks comes to a end today, and there hasn't been much progress yet.Syria's government and the people who oppose it are still deeply divided over big issues.They don't agree on matters like ending the violence in Syria, and allowing aid in to some areas to help those in need.Lakhdar Brahimi, the UN official chairing the talks, says he hopes to see developments during a second round of talks.The next round of talks will begin in ten days.
A breakthrough in treating peanut allergies may have been made by a team of British researchers.A trial was carried out with 99 children, giving them a tiny dose of peanut protein every day, which was gradually increased.The team found that 84% of the allergic children could eat the equivalent of five peanuts a day after six months.It's really important to remember that this trial was carried out safely by medical experts.If you have a nut allergy, it would be very dangerous to try and eat them on your own. And many more tests are still needed before this type of treatment becomes more widespread.The aim of the trial by Addenbrooke's Hospital in Cambridge was to train the children's bodies to get used to peanut protein.Peanuts are the most common cause of fatal allergic reactions to food.Allergy symptoms can include hives, a drop in blood pressure, and swelling of the face and throat - which can block breathing.There is no treatment so sufferers have to avoid them completely, which means checking every food label before eating.Eleven-year-old Lena, who took part in the research, said: "The trial has been an experience and adventure that has changed my life and I've had so much fun, but I still hate peanuts."
England's cricket team director Andy Flower has left his job following the 5-0 Ashes whitewash by Australia. Flower was appointed in 2009 and led England to three successive Ashes series victories. The England and Wales Cricket Board was expected to make an announcement on Flower's future next week. But the news has leaked out earlier than planned.
Parts of the UK are braced for even more severe weather after several weeks of downpours, floods and power outages.Forecasters warn there will be more rain, high tides and strong winds today, and the Environment Agency has more than 150 flood warnings in place in several parts of England and Wales.Nine of those warnings are classed as 'severe', which means a serious risk to people's safety.The worst affected places are the south-west of England.Villages and towns across the Somerset levels have been hit the worst by flooding, for several weeks now, and those areas are expected to get more rainfall too.Tides are expected to get really high on parts of the Welsh coast, so authorities there have set up evacuation centres in places like Cardigan and Aberystwyth.
Thousands of people are protesting on beaches in Australia against a new policy which allows fishermen to catch and kill any large sharks they find.The new ruling has been brought in by the government of Western Australia.They say it's to cut down on the number of shark attacks after seven people were killed by them in the last three years.But protesters say this isn't the answer and killing sharks would damage the natural order of life in the sea.One protester at a beach in Perth said: "Without the sharks there will be no future for humanity because they balance out the ecosystem and every living creature in the sea is really important."At a demonstration in Melbourne, another protester said: "We're better than killing wildlife in vengeance. We need to use the science that's there, to work with the science that's there, to learn to live with these creatures instead of culling them."In some areas, like Perth beach, hooks with bait on them have been placed along the shoreline in a bid to lure the creatures away from swimmers.State Premier Colin Barnett told reporters: "I get no pleasure out of seeing sharks killed, but I have an overriding responsibility to protect the people of Western Australia. That's what I'm doing."
England's education boss Michael Gove says teachers need to get tougher on bad behaviour, by using punishments like writing lines and setting chores. He said possible punishments include weeding the school grounds or tidying classrooms. He's made the announcement because he says schools need to do more to tackle bad behaviour. According to government guidelines 700,000 pupils are in schools where behaviour is "not good enough". Teachers will be getting an instruction pack on how to deal with bad behaviour from next week. Unions that represent teachers say schools should be able to decide for themselves how best to deal with their pupils.
Rugby Union's Six Nation tournament kicked off with a bang - good news for Wales but not-so-good for England. Wales didn't play brilliantly, but it was a good start for them; they beat Italy by 23 - 15 in the opening match of the tournament. For Wales fans it's a glimmer of hope for the bid to win a historic third Six Nations championship. Sad news for England rugby fans though, as their dreams were squashed by France. It was all looking so good but then a late try by the French finished things off for England... The final score 26 - 24 in Paris.
A nine metre deep sinkhole has opened up on the driveway of a house in Buckinghamshire and swallowed up a car. Nobody was inside the car when it happened, but the vehicle is now at the bottom of the hole covered in rubble. Firefighters were called to the scene but left after discovering no-one was inside. The local council will now have to decide what to do next about this very unusual incident.
The Seattle Seahawks have won this year's Super Bowl, thrashing the Denver Broncos 43-8. The American football competition is one of the world's biggest sporting events and around one billion people watched the game. But the win for the Seahawks wasn't good news for a predicting panda from Memphis Zoo. The panda got the outcome of the game wrong - guessing that Denver would take the title instead. This year's Super Bowl was the first to be staged outdoors in a cold-weather state - New Jersey. Despite worries that it would be too chilly for fans, the temperature was around 7C for the 82,500 strong crowd watching.
Thirty kids from a primary school in Northern Ireland have been given the wrong marks for an exam. The pupils from Rainey Endowed School in County Londonderry were taking the exams as part of entrance tests for grammar schools. Six or seven children got lower marks after a second marking but a 'vast majority' had their marks increased. The mistake has been blamed on a technical fault, and they've now been given their correct scores. School principal Mark McCullough said "For those especially who got worse results, it's heart-wrenching". A letter telling parents which grammar schools have accepted their children will arrive at the end of May.
An adventurer has completed a year-long run across Canada and become the first person to go coast-to-coast without support.Jamie McDonald from Gloucester reached the Pacific Ocean 275 days after setting off on his epic journey.He ran most of the 5000 miles dressed as comic book superhero The Flash.He said: "I just can't believe it's over. I have worked for so long and given this run everything I have."During the journey Jamie wore out 10 pairs of trainers!He has raised more than £100,000 for charities including Great Ormond Street Children's Charity and the Pied Piper Appeal.
The Curiosity Mars rover is going to try and drive over a one-metre-high sand dune on Mars. The dune is stopping the rover get to a valley which doesn't have many sharp rocks that can damage the robot's wheels. It's a risky business, NASA scientists lost an earlier rover in sand back in 2009! This time Curiosity will first only climb halfway up the dune to see how it reacts to the sand. The rover has been on Mars since August 2012. Pictures NASA recently took show it's metal wheels have been damaged by sharp stones that lie on Mars' surface. Normally it would be easy for the rover to climb up the dune. But scientists are worried that the sand dune it's going to try and get over might have stones hidden inside, which could cause more damage.
The Queen's granddaughter Zara Philips has had a baby girl. The baby weighed 7lbs 12oz and was born at Gloucestershire Royal Hospital. The newborn, who is yet to be officially named, is the first child for Zara and and her husband Mike Tindall. The Queen is said to be delighted at the news of the birth of her fourth great-grandchild.
Prince Harry will be ending his role as a helicopter pilot to take up a job with the Army in London. He will join the London District HQ, which plans ceremonial events including Trooping the Colour and state visits. Prince Harry, also known as Captain Wales, has spent more than three years training to be and serving as an Apache helicopter pilot. In this role he also served a tour in Afghanistan between September 2012 and January 2013.
Bogs full of wildlife are being destroyed because of demands for peat. Peat is super soil, it helps nourish plants, it's been used to flavour drinks, to purify water and heat houses. Because it's so useful lots of people have tried to dig it up, destroying animal's natural habitat. Martin finds out why a major gardening society is warning that we're using too much.
A state-wide drought has been declared in California as wildfires destroy houses and force thousands to leave their homes. Unusually dry conditions for this time of year have been blamed for the spread of the fires. State Governor Jerry Brown is urging people to conserve water in what could be California's driest year on record. Three people have been arrested and are facing charges of recklessly starting a fire. Authorities say the blaze began when the three suspects threw paper into a campfire but spread quickly because of the dryness of the land.
A 16-year-old school boy has become the youngest person ever to trek to the South Pole. Lewis Clarke, from Bristol, travelled 700 miles in temperatures as low as -40 centigrade and battled winds of up to 120 miles an hour. Skiing for eight hours a day, he covered around 18 miles (29km), pulling his supplies behind him on a sledge. He started the challenge on 2 December, two weeks after his 16th birthday and finished on Saturday. Lewis has raised more than £2,000 for charity through the expedition. He said, "I knew it would be hard but it's harder than I ever thought it would be." "I think sometimes about how few people have done this. Only 300 in 100 years. And I'm doing it. That's pretty cool."
A runaway tractor narrowly missed a house when the brakes failed with only the farmer's dog, Mollie, in the cab. Henry Selway, 77, parked his tractor at the top of a hill in Colyton, Devon, while he went for lunch. But the tractor's handbrake failed and the vehicle hurtled down a steep road. Molly the collie was uninjured when the tractor crashed through a garden fence, and came to rest in a garden.
The sequel to Man of Steel, which will show Batman and Superman meeting for the first time, has been delayed by a year. The film was due for release in July 2015 but Warner Brothers say it has been put back until May 2016. The studios said the delay was needed to allow "filmmakers time to realise fully their vision, given the complex visual nature of the story". The movie stars Ben Affleck as Batman and is directed by 300's Zach Synder.
Just how good is your imagination? Could you create a world as magical as Hogwarts? If the answer is yes then read on, because the 500 words short story writing competition is back. It's a chance for all young writers to create their very own story. The competition is open to anyone aged 13 or younger and there are two age categories; 10-13 and 9 and under. So if fancy yourself as a budding author watch the video to find out more.
A sleeping space probe called Rosetta will be reactivated today as part of a daring mission to land on a comet. Rosetta was launched in 2004 but was put into hibernation in 2011 to save power. The craft is so far away from the Sun that its solar panels could not have kept it running.The probe should wake up at 10am today and should send a signal to Earth this afternoon if all its systems are working. Rosetta is due to drop a lander on Comet 67P/Churyumov-Gerasimenko on 11 November. Comets are believed to contain materials that have remained largely unchanged since the formation of the Solar System 4.6billion years ago. Jean-Jacques Dordain from the European Space Agency said: "Rosetta is a unique mission... comets may be at the origin of who we are."
Games giant Nintendo says it expects to have lost a lot of money this year. The company behind Mario and Pokemon originally expected to make about £583million profit between April 2013 and March 2014. But the company has now announced it will lose around £205million due to poor sales of the Wii U. Nintendo had hoped to sell nine million Wii U consoles but now says it will only manage about three million sales by March. The original Wii was released in 2007 and was a worldwide success. But smartphone games have really taken off since then and now Nintendo is facing renewed competition from the Xbox One and PlayStation 4. Andy Robertson from Family Gamer TV told Newsround: "Nintendo needs to give clear reasons why Wii owners would want to upgrade." "The Wii U can run old Wii games, use Wii controllers and has a wide catalogue of exclusive new games. That's something Nintendo currently beats Microsoft and Sony at. They should push that harder in their advertising," he added. In the past Nintendo has usually kept its most popular games like Pokemon, Zelda and Super Mario exclusive to its own consoles. Soon it may have to make some of its games available on smartphones and other consoles in order to make money. But Andy warned: "Nintendo's exclusive games are a big draw to its consoles." "To have them on smartphones may offer a short-term boost but would impact long term sales of 3DS and Wii U."
The United Nations is facing a new problem with peace talks it has arranged to try to end the war in Syria. It wants to get the Syrian government talking to the people who want them out of power, but the main group against the Syrian government has said it won't take part. The group is unhappy that the UN has invited officials from nearby Iran to the talks. Iran has supported Syria's government in the war, providing weapons to President Assad's forces. But the UN wanted Iran to be part of the solution. Urgent talks are now going on to sort out the issue. A civil war has been raging in Syria for nearly three years between government forces and the people who want them out of power. Thousands of people have been killed and millions more have fled the country.
Energy drinks have been banned at a school in Manchester to try and help pupils be healthier. John Vincent, a government adviser on school food, thinks the mix of sugar and caffeine in energy drinks can damage children's concentration and health. He's called for more research into the effects of the drinks. Gavin Partington from the British Soft Drinks Association says the drinks "are not designed for children."
A major international meeting to try to bring peace to Syria will take place on Wednesday. The United Nations (UN) has been planning talks since last May, after three years of civil war in Syria. It wants the Syrian government and the people who want them out of power to find a solution to end their conflict. More than 100,000 people have been killed and millions more have fled the country since fighting began. Representatives from more than 30 countries and organisations are set to attend the meeting and the UN had invited Iran to join. But the Syrian National Coalition, one of the groups who are against the Syrian government, threatened not to attend if Iran was invited. Iran have supported the Syrian leader President Assad in the war by giving weapons to his forces. The UN secretary-general Ban Ki-moon has now withdrawn Iran's invitation, and Syria's National Coalition has agreed to attend. The first meeting will be held in Switzerland on Wednesday and people all around the world are hoping both sides can reach a peaceful solution.
Fewer toys were bought in 2013 compared with the year before, new figures reveal. Last year around 364 million toys were bought in the UK. Sales of 'pocket money' toys went down the most. That suggests parents are saving up for big birthday presents rather than buying lots of small ones.
A photograph of a "twin toilet" in Russia's Olympic park has amused and confused people online. The unusual lav was spotted in Sochi's Biathlon Centre which was built nearly two years ago. BBC reporter Steve Rosenberg who took the snap said: "Communal toilets like this are not common in Russia." He told Newsround: "There's only one toilet roll holder on the wall - you'd expect two if they were planning to create two separate booths." Some people have suggested that the toilets are simply unfinished - or that somebody has pinched the dividing wall. Others have joked that the toilets are designed to bring people closer for a "friendlier Olympics"! "It's one of the many mysteries of Russia," added Steve.
Peace talks aimed at bringing an end to the war in Syria started on Wednesday. The talks in Switzerland bring the Syrian government face to face with the people who want them out of power for the first time. More than 100,000 people have died in the conflict since 2011. The fighting started when rebel groups tried to overthrow President Assad. Leading figures from around the world are overseeing the talks. The UK's foreign secretary William Hague is attending.
Scientists in Brazil have discovered the first new river dolphin species in almost 100 years. It's named the Araguaian Boto after the Araguaia river in South America where it was found. These dolphins have long beaks which let them hunt for fish in the mud at the bottom of rivers. The species is only the fifth known of its kind and river dolphins are among the world's rarest creatures. Researchers say this species separated from other South American river dolphins more than two million years ago. South America is also home to the Amazon river dolphin, which is thought to be the most intelligent of all the river dolphin species. Scientists think that there are about 1,000 of the creatures living in the Araguaia river in South America. Three of the river dolphin species are on a list of critically endangered animals. One of the best known species, the Yangtze river dolphin or baiji, is thought to have become extinct in about 2006 and researchers are concerned about the future for the new dolphin.
The Queen's granddaughter, Olympic star Zara Phillips, has named her baby daughter Mia Grace. The news was announced on Twitter by Zara's husband, former England rugby star Mike Tindall. Mia Grace is the Queen's fourth great-grandchild and 16th in line to the throne. She was born six days ago at the Gloucestershire Royal Hospital. Zara won silver with the Team GB equestrian team at the London Olympics 2012.
An exploding star has been spotted in the night sky - the closest supernova to Earth that has been seen in decades. It happened 12 million light years away in Messier 82 - known as the cigar galaxy because of its shape. A supernova is a violent blast of energy and light that is hurled out as a star dies. It was discovered by students during a telescope class at the University of London Observatory. Scientists say it could grow even brighter over the coming weeks, before fading away. If this happens, stargazers in the northern hemisphere may be able to spot it with binoculars, by looking between the Great Bear and the Little Bear.
A ghost ship believed to be full of rats has not been spotted drifting towards the UK, say coastguards. The abandoned Russian cruise liner, named Lyubov Orlova, has been missing since it was cut loose while being towed from Canada almost a year ago. There had been fears that winter storms could have been pushed it across the Atlantic Ocean and towards the UK. But coastguards have reported no sightings. A spokesman for the UK Maritime and Coastguard Agency said: "We have received no reported sightings of the vessel since April last year, but we will respond accordingly." Those searching for the ship say there are likely to be thousands of disease-ridden rats on board.
Around 1,500 people working in the British armed forces are set to lose their jobs. It's the final stage of government plans to reduce the number of regular soldiers to just over 80,000 as part of defence cuts announced in 2010. The cuts will be made across all armed forces roles - 1,425 will come from the Army, 70 from the RAF, and 10 from the Royal Navy. The government says these cuts are needed to save money. Defence Secretary Philip Hammond said the decisions were "painful" but Britain's security would not be put at risk. But the opposition Labour party says the cuts risk Britain's safety and security. Shadow Defence Secretary Vernon Coaker said the government was "taking risks with Britain's safety and security" by going ahead with the latest job cuts. The government is planning on recruiting more part-time reservists, and hope to increase the number from 19,000 to 30,000. Those serving or about to serve in Afghanistan will not be affected.
Fossil hunters are being warned of falling rocks and mudslides on the Jurassic Coast in south-west England. The recent stormy weather has uncovered some exciting buried treasures, but it's also made the coast in Dorset unstable - and possibly dangerous. It's thought more fossil hunters have been coming to the area after the skeleton of an ichthyosaur - an ancient "fish lizard" - was found in December. The National Trust said that people should not to ignore warning signs. A large rockfall took place at Burton Bradstock on 16 January. The rocks in Dorset are around 200 million years old.
More than 100 flood warnings are still in place across the UK and forecasters predict more heavy rain for the south and south east of England. There's also disruption for lots of children going back to school, as thousands of homes and schools across the west coast of the UK have been damaged by the storms. One of the areas worst hit by the storms is Aberyswyth, in Wales. Around 150 residents had to be evacuated to rescue centres last night.
Russia has launched a huge security operation ahead of the start of the Winter Olympics in the resort of Sochi. Thousands of police and army officers have been drafted in to help keep the winter games safe next month. The security operation comes after two recent bomb attacks in Russian city of Volgograd. So far, no one has claimed responsibility for the attacks but security has been stepped up as a precaution.
Samsung has unveiled a prototype of its new 85 inch Bendable TV at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas. The TV has a curved screen which can be adjusted by remote control. The new technology means the person watching can bend the screen to accommodate how many people are watching and how far away they're sitting. So far, Samsung hasn't revealed any plans to put the TV on sale. LG has also announced that they'll unveil a smaller 77 inch flexible TV.
Prince William will go back to University today to study agricultural management at Cambridge University. The course will last 10 weeks and will focus on issues facing the UK's farming industry and rural communities. He's expected to have 18 to 20 hours of lectures, seminars and meetings each week. The course is designed to prepare William for taking over the Duchy of Cornwall estate from his father, when he becomes king.
Children in Scotland are likely to be given free school meals in the first three years of primary school. The change is expected to be announced by the Scottish government this week. It will match similar plans to provide free meals to primary school children in England from September. It follows a group of unions, churches and children's organisations writing to the Scottish government, after the plans for England were announced, to ask them to do the same.
From bendy TVs to watches that you can pay for things with, the biggest technology of the future is on display in America all this week. The Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas lets technology companies large and small show off their best gadgets coming to a home near you. Other bits of tech on show include household items controlled by gesture and even self driving cars. Technology Expert Tom Cheesewright gives Newsround a run down of his best bits of tech on show this year.
Check out this behind-the-scenes photo of new Doctor Who star Peter Capaldi on set with co-star Jenna Coleman! The latest Doctor started filming for series eight of the sci-fi show in Cardiff, Wales, on Tuesday. In the picture, it looks like he's wearing Matt Smith's costume after regenerating. Capaldi said: "New job, first day, slightly nervous. Just like the Doctor, I'm emerging from the Tardis into a whole other world." Show boss Steven Moffat said: "First the eyebrows! Then, at Christmas, the face! Coming soon, the whole Doctor. In the Cardiff studios, the Capaldi era begins." Viewers saw a glimpse of Capaldi at the end of the Christmas special. Series eight is set to hit our TV screens in the autumn.
ChildLine says the number of children contacting them about cyberbullying has almost doubled in the past year. It saw 4,507 cases of cyberbullying in 2012-13, up from 2,410 in 2011-12. "It used to be the case that if they went to the bedroom and shut the door, they were safe," said Claire Lilley from the NSPCC. "Now children can be reached 24 hours a day through smartphones, tablets and devices which are not necessarily in the family room." The charity also reports a big increase in racist bullying. ChildLine works with online chat, email and phone. In 2012-13, the charity helped 278,886 children and teenagers.
A US Air Force helicopter has crashed in Norfolk during a training exercise, killing four people. The HH-60G Pave Hawk, based at RAF Lakenheath in Suffolk, came down in a nature reserve in Cley next the Sea on Tuesday night.Emergency services are still at the crash site, and people are being told to keep away. An investigation's started into what caused the aircraft, which was carrying weapons, to crash.
Kids in China may soon be able to buy games consoles after the government lifted a ban on them. The Chinese government banned consoles in 2000 and said the move was to protect young people's mental health. Despite lifting the ban the government will still inspect games and consoles before they are sold. China is a country ruled by the communist party, a huge organisation with more than 80 million members. The government have strict rules on what children learn at school, what they watch on TV and even what they can do online. Some websites and search results are censored and access to Facebook and Twitter restricted. Because of the console ban, most gamers in China play on the PC. One of last year's biggest hits was an army training game made by the Chinese government.
A new campaign group is calling for food and drink companies to cut the amount of sugar they add to their products. Action on Sugar wants to tell people about "hidden sugars" in everyday foods, such as flavoured water, sports drinks, yoghurts and ketchup. It's asking the food industry to reduce sugar bit by bit, so that people don't notice the difference in taste. The group thinks it will help to tackle obesity and diabetes in the UK. The Action on Sugar chairman is Professor Graham MacGregor, who works in heart medicine. He said: "This is a simple plan which gives a level playing field to the food industry, and must be adopted by the Department of Health to reduce the completely unnecessary and very large amounts of sugar the food and soft drink industry is currently adding to our foods."
A massive solar storm means people in Britain will have their best chance in years of seeing the Northern Lights on Friday night. Scientists monitoring activity in space say the sun spewed out a huge ejection of particles earlier in the week which means the lights could be much more visible than normal. The Northern Lights are seen from Earth as spectacular splashes of colour in the night sky. They can even interfere with airline navigation systems, satellites and even NASA space crews. Scientists from the Space Weather Prediction Centre in Boulder, Colorado, say the solar storm could mean that displays of the lights measured on what is called the KP Index could rise from a reading of one (visible in northern Scandinavia) to a reading of seven (visible in southern Wales and parts of southern England). As their name suggests, the lights are usually difficult to see from the South of England but experts believe people iving as far south as the Cotswolds will have one of the best chances in a long time of catching a glimpse. Displays of the Northern Lights happen when solar particles from space break through the Earth's atmosphere. As that happens they release burning gases that produce different coloured lights (oxygen produces green and yellow; nitrogen blue). The scientific term for the lights is the aurora borealis. They occur in a doughnut-shaped area above the magnetic pole, with the best sightings traditionally viewed within that "doughnut" and away from artificial light and moonlight. The most spectacular displays happen in the northern parts of Nordic countries like Sweden, Norway, Finland as well as Alaska, Canada and Russia.
The Queen's granddaughter Zara Phillips is to appear in an computer game. Howrse is an online horse breeding game in which players raise horses and ponies, take care of them, train and enhance their skills and abilities. Zara, who's an Olympic medallist in the equestrian, will guide players through the opening parts of the game and help them complete the tutorials. It's the first time a royal has been in a computer game. Zara said: "It's great to be involved with a game that lets children and adults alike interact with horses".
At the beginning of January 2014 people from Bulgaria and Romania gained the right to work in the UK with no restrictions. When these countries joined the European Union in 2007 controls were placed on the number of people who could seek jobs in other EU countries. There's been a lot of public concern about immigration in the UK and some people are worried that extra people will have an impact on jobs, housing and schools. Ayshah visited the town of Boston in Lincolnshire where one person in every 10 is from Eastern Europe.
Olympic champion Jessica Ennis-Hill has announced she is expecting a baby with her husband Andy. The news means the 27-year-old gold medallist won't appear at the Commonwealth Games in Glasgow this year. "I am sorry I won't be in Glasgow for the Commonwealth Games," said Jessica. "But I know it will be an amazing occasion. I will be at home awaiting the arrival of a little Ennis-Hill." The sporting star said she still plans to compete at the 2016 Olympic Games in Rio. She said: "I am 100% set on returning to full-time athletics once our baby is born."
The north of Scotland is being considered as a possible base for a European spaceport. Supporters say the base could be used by companies taking tourists into space, as well as launching satellites. Space tourism is moving closer to becoming a reality, with Virgin Galactic's maiden flight due to depart from New Mexico in early 2014. A spaceport could also save UK space businesses money as they could launch from Scotland rather than elsewhere.
An American company has developed a 3D printer that is capable of printing sweets. The Chefjet and Chefjet Pro can print using chocolate, vanilla, mint, cherry or watermelon flavoured sugar. 3D sweets are made by spreading layers of sugar or chocolate on top of each other to make the edible objects. The cost of these printers may put people off though with the basic version costing about $5,000 (£3,000) and the more advanced one double that. The Chefjet Pro can also create "photographic-quality" pictures by mixing together different ingredients that can then then be wrapped around cakes and other surfaces. A Spanish company Natural Machines, recently unveiled a prototype called the Foodini that can create chocolates and ravioli pasta among other choices.
From bendy televisions to food printers the latest gadgets have been on show all this week at the Consumer Electronics Show (CES) in America. The Las Vegas event is where companies show off the high-tech future stuff we could all soon be buying. BBC technology correspondent Rory Cellan-Jones has been out there and he kicks off our special round up of what the experts, and our own Ricky and Leah, think are the highlights from the show. BBC reporter Rory Cellan-Jones took a peek at a 3D sweety printer for us! Leading expert Tom Cheesewright took time out to tell Newsround his top 5 gadgets from CES - including bendy phones and house appliances that know when you're there.
The Voice has returned to our TV screens, with new coaches Ricky Wilson and Kylie Minogue making their debuts. Saturday night's show had an average of 8.4 million viewers, according to overnight figures - over two million more than last year's opener. It beat Tom Daley's Splash! on ITV, which got an audience of 3.7 million. The singing talent show suffered falling ratings last year, so it's hoped Ricky and Kylie will help bring in more viewers. The new two coaches each brought their own antics to Saturday night's show, including Kylie hiding behind her chair and Ricky Wilson doing a cartwheel! There are also two new hosts - JLS star Marvin Humes and Emma Willis.
Thousands of protesters have blocked major roads in the capital of Thailand as part of a campaign against the government. The campaigners have been marching through the streets of Bangkok, and holding rallies, to try make the Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra and the government step down. It's part of a campaign that's been running since November because the protesters don't agree with the way the prime minister is running the country. The government says it wants life to carry on as normal through the shutdown and has ordered extra trains to take people to the city and provided thousands of extra parking places outside the city centre. About 150 schools have had to close too. The protesters say they will stay in place for several days.
You've probably heard of the 5 A DAY advice: you should eat at least five portions of fruit and veg daily to help stay healthy. Fruit juice is often counted as one of those portions, but a top health expert has now said it shouldn't. Dr Susan Jebb is a health adviser to the government and she's an expert on diet and obesity. She said: "Fruit juice isn't the same as intact fruit and it has got as much sugar as many classical sugar drinks." Dr Jebb also says that because the sugar in fruit juice is absorbed very fast, "by the time it gets to your stomach your body doesn't know whether it's Coca-Cola or orange juice". She said if people want to drink orange juice they should drink smaller amounts, diluted with water, to reduce the amount of sugar they drink. Dr Jebb said eating fruit whole - like an apple or an orange - is much better for you because you will be getting more nutrients, more fibre and will be eating less sugar than you would if you had a juice. But the Department of Health says that even though fruit juice has natural fruit sugars, the benefits of drinking it are more than the negatives. 5 A DAY is based on advice from the World Health Organization, which recommends eating a minimum of 400g of fruit and vegetables a day to lower the risk of serious health problems, such as diabetes and obesity. Fruit and vegetables are a good source of vitamins and minerals, including vitamin C, and they're a source of dietary fibre, which helps keep your insides healthy.
A charity for people with facial disfigurements has criticised the makers of Moshi Monsters for creating characters which, they say, reinforce negative views of people with things like scars and spots. Changing Faces is urging people to sign a petition to force Moshi makers Mind Candy to change the name of some of their evil characters. They say names like Fishlips and Freakface make kids connect disfigurement with being bad and could encourage bullying. Mind Candy say they're sorry for causing offence. Changing Faces says it is particularly concerned about a group of "bad" monsters called Glumps which were introduced in 2011. James Partridge, the founder of Changing Faces, says calling a character from a children's game Freakface is "like something from the dark ages". He added: "I'm very surprised by how extraordinarily stubborn some parts of British business are to getting into the 21st Century." Mind Candy said it is "very sorry that any offence has been caused by our characters". The company said it was surprised that Changes Faces had launched a petition because it has been talking to the charity since March 2013 and has discussed the possibility of developing storylines to support the charity's work. It's not the first time Changing Faces have criticised a product in this way. Last summer they made a similar complaint about Lego.
Millions of diary entries describing life during World War 1 are going to be put online. The pages describe what life was like for soldiers fighting on the front line in France and Flanders. The National Archives are publishing the diaries on the internet to mark a hundred years since the start of World War 1. The first 1,944 diary entries will go online today. When the website is complete there will be 1,500,000 pages! William Spencer from The National Archives said: "Making the diaries available online allows people across the world to discover the daily activities, stories and battles of each unit for themselves."
The head of the United Nations, Ban Ki-Moon, says half of Syria's population "urgently need humanitarian aid." This is equal to around 9.3 million people and the UN said they need £4 billion over the coming year to help them. This is the UN's biggest ever request for a single crisis. Ban Ki-Moon was speaking at a special conference in Kuwait, which has been held in the hope of raising the money that's needed. Mr Ban said the conflict, which began in 2011, had "set back Syria years, even decades". He said he was especially concerned by violence and by reports of starvation in communities that are trapped by fighting. The UN estimates that nearly 8 million people have been driven from their homes; 4.25 million of those are still in Syria and around 2.9 million others have fled to nearby countries. The UN says more than 100,000 people have died since the uprising began. So far the following countries have promised money at the conference: Kuwait announced a pledge of $500m (£304m). Saudi Arabia pledged $250m (£152m) and Qatar $60m (£36m). The US promised $380m (£231m) in new contributions. EU countries as a whole have pledged $753m (£459m). Norway said it would contribute $75m (£46m). The UK pledged a further $164m (£100m), bringing its total contribution to $985m. Those pledges represent roughly a third of the amount the UN says it needs.
Websites that can detect online bullying have been developed by a team of tech experts. Their computer code can scan messages being posted online and detect if common bullying words are being used. If the website detects somebody is being mean it can ask the writer: "Are you sure you want to post this?" The computer code was developed at the MIT Media Lab in the United States. It could be used in smartphone apps in the future. Karthik Dinakar who was part of the team who made the computer code, said that it was his own experiences of bullying that made him want to help others. He said ""I want this to get people to reflect on their behaviour online - what we say and how we say it matters a lot. Sometimes it makes sense to pause and ask ourselves - do I really want to send this post or email?" It's hoped the software can make people think twice about posting hurtful messages online.
A charity has spoken out about games based on plastic surgery themes, describing them as 'dangerous'. Players are presented with a figure of a girl and are invited to "fix" her, making her thinner using surgery techniques. Eating disorder charity B-eat says games like this send out a bad message. It comes after Apple and Google removed a version aimed at kids aged nine and older. Earlier this afternoon we told you that a very similar version was still available aimed at kids aged 12 and above. Since then, Apple appear to have removed that one too. But, Susan Ringwood from B-Eat told Leah earlier that they are concerned. A Google spokesman said: "We don't comment on individual apps, but will remove apps that breach our guidelines." Newsround asked Apple to comment too, but they haven't replied.
Parts of Australia have been hit by an 'extreme' heat wave and lightning strikes have sparked wildfires across the south east of the country. In some areas the temperatures have hit over 40 degrees Celsius and fire authorities there fear the heat could cause dangerous bushfires. In Victoria state there were around 250 fires caused by the lightning. Country Fire Authority Chief Officer Euan Ferguson said in a statement: "The extreme temperatures [in Victoria] over the coming three days will test fire services and the community... it's critical we minimise the risk of any fires before Friday." More than 14,000 properties have had power cuts and in Tasmania there are reports that road tar has melted because of the heat. At the Australian Open, Canadian tennis player Frank Dancevic collapsed during a match. He told reporters the heat made him "dizzy". China's Peng Shuai said the temperatures caused her to vomit during her match. A ball boy also collapsed because of the heat.
Apple has agreed to give millions of dollars back to parents in America, whose children ran up massive bills by making in-app purchases. Some apps can be downloaded for free but then charge you to continue in the game or buy stuff like lives. Some children spent lots of money through the apps without realising. Apple will now need to change things so you have to have permission from parents before you make an in-app purchase. The decision to refund $36 million (£20 million) only covers people in the States. In the UK the company's almost always refunded parents if they complained about big bills from their kids gaming purchases. 
Gene therapy is being used to help restore eyesight to people who are partially blind. Researchers at Oxford University say their new technique, to help people with eye problems, is working. People with the disease choroideremia slowly lose their eyesight when cells in the part of the eye used to detect light, called the retina, slowly dies. Surgeons say the therapy could in future be used to treat the most common forms of blindness. The new experimental treatment lifts the retina and injects DNA into the area behind it, to protect the cells which are still alive. In the trial the technique has stopped patients' eyesight becoming worse and for some made it better than before.
New Zealand's tallest mountain has shrunk by 30m but is still the highest in the country. A new study of Mount Cook - also known at Aoraki - shows it is 3,724m (12,217ft) down from 3,754m. It's thought that the top has been worn away after a collapse of rocks and ice in 1991 left the summit open to the elements. Scientists used GPS and photos taken at the time to find out more about the mystery of the shrinking mountain. Dr Pascal Sirguey of the Otago National School of Surveying which carried out the assessment said: "By carefully studying photos taken after the collapse, it appears that there was still a relatively thick ice cap, which was most likely out of balance with the new shape of the summit ridge." "As a result the ice cap has been subject to erosion over the past 20 years."
Firefighters are battling a 15,000-tonne tyre fire at a recycling plant in Yorkshire. About 70 firefighters have been tackling the fire since 8.30am and the smoke is so huge that it can be seen from space. Nigel Hutchinson, the county's fire chief said the cause of the blaze was not yet known. He added that the fire at Newgen Recycling in Sherburn-in-Elmet might go on for days. Residents and school pupils were told to stay indoors as fumes rose over nearby villages. An eyewitness who works at a nearby airfield told the BBC that he could see flames the height of the hangars at the airfield - at least 20-30ft (7-10m) high. "It's absolutely colossal. It's like a tornado when you look at it close up, with the heat swirling and all the rest. It's absolutely amazing," he said. Some flights at the airfield could not take off because of the smoke. Twelve schools and a children's centre were told to keep staff and pupils inside, according to North Yorkshire County Council. But, Police said because the smoke is high in the sky the risk to the public is low.
Chessington World of Adventures will stay closed to day visitors until 26 December, following a fire that broke out at one of their restaurants. The fire at the Surrey theme park has lead to a reduced capacity so only guests staying at the resort's hotel will be able to visit. Chessington is offering refunds to any one who had booked day tickets in advance. The fire broke out around 8.30am on 21 December, before the park was open. Chessington say it was quickly brought under control and that the fire services had left by 3pm. No one was hurt and the park's animals are all said to be safe too.
Heavy rain and strong winds have hit western parts of the UK. The bad weather is also disrupting road and rail travel as millions of people try to get away for Christmas. Forecasters say winds could reach 80mph in Wales and a yellow "be aware" weather warning has been issued in Scotland. Power cables have been blown down in parts of Cornwall and almost 3,000 homes have been left without power. People travelling home for Christmas could face problems and some train companies are expecting services to be affected by the weather. In London, Winter Wonderland in Hyde Park will be closed throughout Monday because of the bad weather. Forecasters say the conditions will ease off for Christmas Day and Boxing Day before possibly returning on Friday.
Travellers planning to get away for Christmas faced a second day of disruption after fierce storms continued to hit many parts of the UK. There were delays on the trains and airports advised passengers to check their flights before they left home. Winds reached 80mph in northern and western Scotland and around 100,000 homes in the south of England lost power. The bad weather was expected to ease off for Christmas Day and Boxing Day before returning on Friday.
Christian pilgrims from around the world are gathering in Bethlehem for celebrations leading up to midnight mass at the Church of the Nativity. Every Christmas pilgrims travel to the church where a gold star embedded in the floor marks the spot where Jesus was believed to have been born. Thousands are expected to take part in the celebrations at Manger Square outside the Church of the Nativity.
Parents should be banned from smacking children, according to Maggie Atkinson, the Children's Commissioner for England. In a newspaper interview she said that the current law gives pets and adults more rights to be protected from violence than children. She's in favour of a total ban, which could see parents face criminal action if they broke it. Under current laws in England and Wales, mild smacking is allowed but any which causes visible bruising, grazes, scratches, swellings or cuts isn't. Any adult found guilty of breaking the law may face up to five years in jail. Similar laws exist in Scotland and Northern Ireland.
Around 4,000 homes are still without power across the UK because of storms and flooding. Engineers say the return of gale force winds and heavy rain yesterday has made it difficult to get households reconnected. More than 30 flood warnings are still in place for England and Wales, as well as several flood alerts in Scotland. However the bad weather is expected to subside over the weekend for much of the UK, before returning next week. Rail services have been disrupted, while road closures have been reported around the country because of uprooted trees.
Two people have been arrested after a fire broke out on board a ferry in the North Sea. It had been travelling from Newcastle to Amsterdam, in the Netherlands, on Saturday night when a fire started in one of the cabins. Six people were airlifted and taken to hospital but no one was seriously injured. Of the two people taken in by police, one was arrested on suspicion of intentionally causing the fire. The ship had sailed just 30 miles but had to return to Newcastle following the incident. There were 946 passengers on board and the ferry company say the fire was extinguished after 15 minutes.
All of the houses that lost power during the Christmas storms have been reconnected. At the height of the storms more than 150,000 properties were cut off and around 600 homes still had no electricity at the start of Sunday. The environment secretary, Owen Paterson said that some power companies had "let their customers down badly" over Christmas. The bad weather also caused huge travel disruption and flooding in the run-up to Christmas. The Met Office has warned some parts of the UK to "be aware" of more gales and heavy rain on Monday.
Seven-time Formula 1 champion Michael Schumacher remains in a critical condition after a ski accident. The German was skiing in the French Alps with his teenage son when he fell and hit his head on a rock. Doctors told reporters that if Schumacher had not been wearing a protective helmet "he wouldn't be here now". The driver remains in a critical condition in hospital in Grenoble and his family are at his bedside.
Katherine Jenkins, Rachel Yankey and Karren Brady have been recognised in the New Year's Honours list - which for the first time includes more women than men. 611 women have been recognised and make up 51% of the list. Singer Katherine Jenkins and footballer Rachel Yankey were awarded an OBE and Apprentice star Karren Brady received a CBE for services to entrepreneurship and women in business. Doctor Marcus Setchell, who oversaw the birth of Prince George was given a special honour by the Queen. He was made a Knight Commander of the Royal Victorian Order. The creator of Moshi Monsters, Michael Acton Smith has also been awarded an OBE in the New Year Honours list.
Talks aimed at resolving some of the biggest issues stopping the Northern Ireland peace process have ended without agreement. Northern Ireland's five main parties met through the night in a final effort to settle differences over parades, flags and the legacy of the Troubles. Former US diplomat Dr Richard Haass, who held the talks, said a final agreement was "not there" but there had been "significant progress". Dr Haass was brought to Northern Ireland in July by the first and deputy first ministers to try and help sort out the problems. The past - more than 3,500 people died in the Troubles, and in almost 3,300 cases no-one was prosecuted. Reaching agreement on how to investigate these killings and what to do about other people affected by the Troubles has so far proved impossible. Flags - this issue was highlighted last year when Belfast City Council's decision to fly the union flag from city hall and other council buildings only on 18 designated days sparked street protests. Parades - most parades are peaceful but a small number have caused troubles when they have passed through certain areas.
Formula 1 champion Michael Schumacher's condition has improved after an operation to relieve pressure on his brain. A new scan showed signs that his condition had improved but doctors say that he's still "not out of danger". The seven-time Formula 1 champion suffered head injuries on Sunday in a skiing accident in the French Alps. Doctors told reporters that if he had not been wearing a protective helmet "he wouldn't be here now".
An undersea volcanic eruption off Japan's coast has created a new island that looks just like Snoopy. The island rose from the sea 620 miles south of Tokyo and expanded before joining up with an existing island. Scientists say the volcano remains highly active and that the island may change shape as it continues to expand. Japan's coastguard have warned that the area is still very dangerous and told tourists to stay away.
People from Romania and Bulgaria in eastern Europe are now free to live and work in the UK. Before 1 January 2014, there were rules on what kind of jobs they could have in the UK. But they now have the same rights as other European Union (EU) citizens. The UK is one of eight countries lifting similar restrictions. Romania and Bulgaria are the newest members of the EU, joining in 2007. The EU is a group of 28 countries that work together to make it easier to do things such as trade, travel and work towards peace. Some people are worried that the UK won't be able to cope with the arrival of more Romanians and Bulgarians. But others think there won't be a big rush as feared - and that those who do arrive will work hard and bring valuable skills to the UK.
A mission to rescue people from a scientific research ship stranded in Antarctica has been completed. The Akademik Shokalskiy ship has been trapped by ice since Christmas Eve - with 52 scientists and tourists on board, and a crew of 22. A helicopter picked up passengers in groups to get them to an icebreaker ship, so they could be taken home. The crew is planning to stay on the vessel until it becomes free. It isn't in any danger of sinking. It's expected the 52 rescued passengers will arrive in Australia by the middle of January.
Severe flooding has hit parts of the UK, with south-west England and Wales worst affected. The extreme weather has been caused by a storm front that's swept across from the Atlantic to the UK, with heavy rain and strong winds causing high tides. In Scotland, A tidal surge hit Western and Southern coastal areas around lunchtime on Friday causing flooding. In Wales, some people were trapped in their homes. The Environment Agency has warned that weather conditions in some parts of Britain could be the worst for five to ten years. Meanwhile, the government held a Cobra emergency meeting on Friday to discuss the extreme weather.
Getting tongue-tied over names like Llanfairpwllgwyngyllgogerychwyrndrobwllllantysiliogogogoch could be a thing of the past. A new app which has been developed, works by scanning barcodes placed at hundreds of sights across Wales. Users can access audio guides for place names and read explanations into the history of the area. HistoryPoints, who have developed the app, say it aims to make pronunciation of names easier.
A winter snow storm is causing chaos in Canada and north-eastern US states, bringing up to 60cm of snow in some parts. In Quebec City in Canada, the temperature dropped as low as -38C. Authorities there have warned residents to remain indoors for their own safety and to keep roads clear for snow removal. In New York City, all public schools were closed on Friday and people ordered to stay at home if they can. In the neighbouring states of Connecticut, Massachusetts and New Jersey, people were also asked to avoid non-essential travel. The weather has caused major disruption to travel with more than 4,000 flights cancelled in the past few days. A number of people have died as a result of the weather and both New York and New Jersey have declared state of emergencies.
More stormy weather and snow is expected in parts of the UK over the weekend. Many people living near coasts around the UK were already hit by severe flooding on Friday. In Dorset in southern England and Aberystwyth in west Wales, hundreds of homes have been flooded and residents evacuated. Members of the public have been urged to stay away from coastlines, coastal paths and promenades. In Sussex, part of a cliff fell into the sea because of the force of the storm. Four severe flood warnings issued on Saturday, have now been lifted. In Scotland, there were huge tidal surges on Friday and another storm surge is expected on the Forth on Saturday afternoon. Roads are closed because of flooding in many parts of the UK, including south-west England, Cumbria, southern Wales, Northern Ireland and western Scotland.
A Chinese ice-breaker ship sent to help passengers stranded on a Russian vessel in Antarctica, is now stuck itself. The Xue Long was originally sent to break a clear route through the ice to the smaller Akademik Shokalskiy vessel, which became trapped on Christmas Eve. Passengers on that ship were rescued by helicopter and taken to another bigger ice-breaker ship. But the Xue Long itself hasn't been able to make its way through the ice and is now trapped. The master of the ship has said the crew are safe and are waiting for conditions to improve.
More storms, high tides and gale-force winds are expected across many parts of the UK. Over one hundred flood warnings remain in place across the country. Most of those are in Southwest England, where the ground is already saturated, following heavy rainfall in the past 48 hours. In total more than 200 homes have been flooded from Cornwall to Scotland, with fields and roads across the country left under water. BBC weather forecaster Darren Bett said further stormy weather is expected in many parts of the UK. Roads are closed because of flooding in areas including Ayrshire, Herefordshire, Somerset, West Sussex, Surrey, Berkshire and Wiltshire. Some train routes in England, Wales and Scotland have also been affected by flooding and poor weather conditions, National Rail said. On Saturday, Prime Minister David Cameron praised the "great work" of the people involved in responding to the latest floods.
A US ice-breaker has been asked to help two ships that are stuck in thick ice in Antarctica. The Polar Star has been asked to cut a path through the ice in order to free the Xue Long and the Akademik Shokalskiy, the US Coast Guard said. The Chinese boat, Xue Long, became stuck after helping to rescue 52 passengers stranded on Akademik Shokalskiy on Thursday. The Russian research vessel has been trapped since Christmas Eve.
More jobs should be created in the UK space industry, according to the man in charge of how the country's money is spent. Chancellor George Osbourne says he wants to see to see three times as many space-related jobs in Britain in the next 20 years.The space industry develops everyday things like satellite TV and satnavs in cars - but also makes amazing spacecraft that map the stars. America and Russia have traditionally been the biggest investors in space technology but China and India have both recently started to develop their own programmes.
Scientists say they have made a new breakthrough in finding out what makes so-called supervolcanoes erupt. Until now it was thought only external triggers, like earthquakes, could cause a blast. However, new tests suggest the huge volume of liquid magma inside is enough to cause a catastrophic super-eruption. Supervolcanoes are capable of eruptions thousands of times bigger than normal ones and scientists have been trying to better predict when they can occur. The new tests have been carried out by the European Synchrotron Radiation Facility in Grenoble, France. Their experiments showed that when solid magma turned to liquid magma pressure built up. When this pressure built up too much it could crack more than 10 kilometres of Earth's crust forcing the magma out on the surface. But if a super volcano did happen to be on the brink of an eruption we would still see a warning. The ground would probably rise up hundreds of metres. There are about 20 known supervolcanoes on Earth - including the one in Yellowstone National Park, Lake Toba in Indonesia, Lake Taupo in New Zealand, and the somewhat smaller Phlegraean Fields near Naples, Italy. When a supervolcano erupted 600,000 years ago in Wyoming, in what today is Yellowstone National Park, it ejected more than 1,000 cubic km of ash and lava into the atmosphere - enough to bury a large city. However there is no need to panic as super-eruptions occur extremely rarely - only once every 100,000 years or so.
Parts of America are preparing for potentially record-breaking low temperatures, caused by an icy blast of air known as a polar vortex. A winter storm has already covered north-eastern states and parts of Canada with snow up to 60cm deep. Weather experts think the icy temperatures could be as low as -60 degrees Celsius. Schools in Chicago have closed and people have been told to stay indoors. Meanwhile, a plane from Toronto slid into snow as it turned onto a taxiway after landing at New York's JFK airport on Sunday. No-one was hurt in the incident but all flights at the airport were suspended for two hours because of icy runways. The plunging temperatures result from the polar vortex, an anti-clockwise pool of cold, dense air. The vortex has been very strong, with the cold air locked in to Arctic Canada for a long time. Stuck in one place, the air has got colder and colder. Cold air is dense so once it is released it travels a long way and that is why it is reaching so far south.
Star Wars style holograms could be used to send messages to friends and family in the near future, according to a company working on the hi-tech idea. A Polish firm say they've developed the Leia Display System (LDS), which works by projecting hi-resolution images on to a 'fog' of water vapour. The images appear to float in mid-air and developers say in the future the system could be used for interactive phone calls with people appearing in a room in 3D. The Leia Display system was inspired by the character in the original 1977 Star Wars film Princess Leia, who appears as a hologram in a recorded message. Some newspaper reports had suggested the technology could be available within the next five years but one of the men behind it was reluctant to put a timescale on it. Marcin Panek, who's the lead developer of LDS said: "Although the technology is still quite large and expensive it is hoped that one day the system could be small and cheap enough to mass produce for people to use at home."
The Syrian government has agreed to let more aid into some of the areas worst affected by the conflict. They've given the United Nations permission to distribute food and medical supplies to parts of the country where supplies are running low. It's thought around 2.5 million Syrians are trapped in hard to reach areas, where fighting continues. On Monday, the UN launched its biggest ever appeal to raise £4 billion to help the people of Syria.
Google has revealed 'facebook' was the most searched-for term in the UK in 2013. Every year, Google releases a list of the most googled terms, with YouTube and Google coming second and third. They also looked at questions and found "what is facebook?" was the most popular, with "what is love?" second. Reality star Kim Kardashian was the most searched for celebrity with One Direction, Miley Cyrus, Justin Bieber and Kate Middleton also in the top ten. Google also unveiled its "top trending" search terms for the UK in 2013. These are the entries that have seen the largest increase in traffic compared with 2012. Gareth Bale was the top trending football star, while the Grand National and Wimbledon were the top events, beating Eurovision and the Oscars. There was a battle of the superheroes in top 10 most searched-for movies. Man of Steel beat Iron Man 3 in to top place. Despicable Me 2 was the only animated movie in the list.
Three proposals to extend either Heathrow or Gatwick airports have been put forward by the Airport Commission. They say the UK needs a new runway by 2030. The options are: a new runway at Heathrow; expanding one of its existing ones or adding a new runway at Gatwick. But expanding airports is a subject that divides people. Whilst making airports bigger will create thousands of jobs, it would also mean homes and even villages could be demolished to create the extra space. Airlines are frequently announcing new long haul flight routes, as well as cheaper low-budget destinations, which means there needs to be enough space in airports for planes to take off and land. Having another runway at airports such as Heathrow and Gatwick would mean that thousands more flights could be offered - which could bring lots of money into the country.
World War One affected nearly everyone in Britain as men and boys were sent to fight in some of the toughest conditions. One of the most interesting stories to come out of the conflict was the Christmas Truce, when German and British soldiers went into no man's land to shake hands, sing carols and play a football game. For the last two years the Premier League has been running a Christmas Truce football tournament in Ypres. This year youth teams from England, Belgium, Germany and France all took part. Conrad plays for Manchester City and the trip to the trenches had a big impact on him. "It's hard to imagine what it must have been like because we've got such good lives to what it must have been like in the war," said Conrad. Every night since the war, local people gather to remember those soldiers who died at the Menin Gate memorial in Ypres. As part of the Christmas Truce Tournament, the players visit both Christmas Truce sites where they leave a football and wreath as a mark of respect. The players attend the Last Post ceremony at the Menin Gate and one of the players says the Ode to Remembrance.
Google has introduced a new feature to its Google Glass, which allows users to take a photo with a "wink of the eye". Google said the feature was faster than the camera button or the voice action and works even when the display is off. The firm also said the wink feature could be used for various other things in the future, like paying for goods. "Imagine a day where you're riding in the back of a cab and you just wink at the meter to pay," the firm said in a blogpost. "You wink at a pair of shoes in a shop window and your size is shipped to your door. You wink at a cookbook recipe and the instructions appear right in front of you - hands-free, no mess, no fuss," it added. The update to Google Glass, called version XE12, also adds a screen lock feature and the ability to upload and share videos on YouTube.
The US space agency has ordered emergency spacewalks to carry out repairs on the International Space Station. Nasa said it will take two astronauts and three spacewalks to replace a faulty pump module which is part of technology used to keep the ISS cool in the sun's rays. Half of the cooling system automatically shut down last week because temperatures onboard were unusual. Nasa said the situation was potentially serious but not life-threatening. The first spacewalk is planned for Saturday. The pump is part of one of the station's two external cooling loops, which are devices that pass ammonia outside the station to keep equipment, that's on both the inside and outside of the ISS, cool. Each spacewalk is scheduled to last six-and-a-half hours and will be broadcast on Nasa TV.
Plastic banknotes are to be brought into circulation by the Bank of England in 2016. The new notes will be made of polymer, instead of cotton like the current banknotes, because the Bank says they will be much cleaner. The £5 note, featuring former UK Prime Minister Sir Winston Churchill, will be the first plastic banknote. The £10 note is to go plastic about a year later, this one will also have the image of author Jane Austen on it. More than 20 countries around the world, including Australia, New Zealand and Canada now use polymer banknotes. Plastic banknotes are produced from a thin, transparent and flexible film made of polypropylene. This is coated with multiple layers of special ink (usually white) to the front and the back, that allows the design to be printed onto the note. The Bank has said that these notes last for 2.5 times longer than paper banknotes. They will survive a spin in the washing machine, but will still melt under extreme heat such as an iron.
It's one of the biggest criminal thefts Britain has seen in the past century - the Great Train Robbery of 1963. On August 8 that year a criminal gang stole millions of pounds from a train carrying post from Glasgow in Scotland to London in England. One of the the criminals involved, Ronnie Biggs, died aged 84 today. He became infamous after going on the run from police, all over the world, for more than 30 years. In the 1960s lots of letters, parcels and money were transported around the country by rail. One of these mail trains, heading to London from Glasgow, was stopped by a criminal gang in Buckinghamshire in the south east of England. They escaped with 120 bags of cash, totalling more than £2.5 million - which would be worth a whopping £40 million in today's money. The train driver, Jack Mills, was badly hurt and never fully recovered. Ronnie Biggs was one of the members of the gang, but he became notorious - famous for the wrong reasons - because of what happened after he was jailed. Biggs was convicted and sentenced to 30 years in prison but in 1965 he escaped from Wandsworth Prison by climbing over the wall. He fled to France, then Australia, before ending up in Brazil. In 1974 he was arrested. But then he had a son and under Brazilian law was protected from being sent back to Britain. In an interview he said: "I don't regret the fact that I was involved in the train robbery. As a matter of fact I am quite pleased with the idea I was involved with it." When asked why, he answered: "Well it's given me a little place in history. I've made a mark for myself." Many people including the family of the injured train driver didn't believe Biggs should have been famous or have made money out of his crime. But he became well-known because of the shocking events of his life story - the robbery, the prison escape and the 36 years on the run. These things usually only happen in fiction, so many people were fascinated by how he had managed to make them a reality. In 2001 - as Biggs' health worsened - he flew back home to the UK to get medical help - and was taken back to prison. He was released from jail in 2009 after becoming seriously ill. Trains don't carry large amounts of cash anymore - so a serious crime like the Great Train Robbery is unlikely to ever happen again.
There are two winning tickets in America's Mega Millions lottery that can be used to claim a share of $636 million! The jackpot is the second-largest in the country's history, and is the equivalent of £390 million. One of the winners was a 56 year old woman, who used her family's birthdays for her winning numbers, will get the equivalent of £106 million. The other winner who picked the same numbers hasn't come forward yet. The odds of winning were one in 259 million. The current American jackpot record is $656m - that was split between three winners in 2012.
A man from America has won a Picasso painting worth a million US dollars in an online Christmas raffle. Pablo Picasso is one of the most famous artists ever and his work is among the most valuable in the world. Olivier Picasso, shown in the picture with the painting called L'Homme au Gibus (Man with Opera Hat) helped to promote the raffle. It was set up by a charity that is working to save an ancient city called Tyre which is in south Lebanon. Tyre is a world heritage site, recognised for its important place in history; but it was badly damaged during the Lebanese Civil War thirty years ago, and many people say it hasn't been restored to its former beauty. Olivier Picasso said his grandfather would have approved of his work being put to good use: "My grandfather was a pioneer in everything, in his love life, in his artwork, so... I'm sure he would have helped the cause." The charity issued 50,000 tickets at 100 euros each, hoping to raise $5 million. The winner is an American man called Jeffrey Gonano, who said he bought a ticket after looking for a picture to hang on his wall.
The supersonic British Bloodhound car will use a Norwegian built rocket to try and reach 1,000mph (1,609km/h). Bloodhound will need a rocket and a jet engine to try and beat the current record of 763mph (1,228km/h). The car will use a Eurofighter-Typhoon jet engine to get up to speeds of about 350mph before igniting a rocket motor to go supersonic. The record attempt will take place on a specially prepared dried-out lake bed in South Africa in 2015 and 2016.
A court has been told for the the first time that Kate Middleton was a victim of the phone-hacking scandal. Evidence presented at the trial of several journalists from the News of the World newspaper claimed voicemails left for Kate by Prince William were accessed. The court heard how in one personal message, from before the couple got married, Prince William, who's now known as the Duke of Cambridge, calls Kate by the pet name "babykins". In another William told Kate he had been working late on an RAF training exercise and 'had almost been shot by blanks'. The messages were described in court as part of the phone hacking trial, in which former editors and reporters from the News of The World are accused of offences connected with illegally listening to other people's voicemails. The newspaper has since closed down and the investigation sparked a major inquiry into the way newspapers are run. Former NoW editors Rebekah Brooks and Andy Coulson are on trial with then royal editor Clive Goodman and four others others accused of a number of offences, which they all deny, including conspiracy to illegally intercept voicemails.
Powerful storms have swept across the UK, and forecasters are warning of another night of extreme conditions. There have been winds of up to 90 miles per hour hitting some areas, bringing down trees and power lines. The highest wind speed recorded in Scotland overnight on Wednesday was 90mph in South Uist. There were gusts of up to 60mph in Glasgow and 66mph in Aberdeen. Thousands of homes in Cumbria, Lancashire and Northern Ireland have been without electricity and several roads were closed. Football matches were called off too: hail disrupted Stoke's match against Manchester United, and rain waterlogged Sheffield Wednesday's pitch, forcing it's game against Wigan to be abandoned.
A telescope with a camera so powerful it can photograph a human hair from a thousand miles away, is to be launched by the European Space Agency. It's on a five year mission to produce the most detailed 3D map of the Milky Way ever. The camera on the Gaia telescope will measure the size, brightness and position of around a billion stars. It is hoped that it will give us a clearer idea about the evolution of the Milky Way. Experts think it will help them discover things about our galaxy that no-one ever knew.
The family of a soldier who was killed in an attack in London say they are satisfied that justice has been done, after two men were found guilty of his murder. UK Prime Minister David Cameron also welcomed the guilty verdicts given to Michael Adebolajo and Michael Adebowale, who've been on trial since November. They attacked Fusilier Lee Rigby outside an army barracks in May in a crime that shocked the whole country. They'll be sentenced next month. Fusilier Rigby's wife, Rebecca, said: "This has been the toughest time of our lives. No one should have to go through what we have been through as a family." The court heard that the two men had gone out deliberately looking for a soldier to attack. Adebolajo and Adebowale were motivated by Islamist extremism, and the Prime Minister, David Cameron, has said that "we have to redouble our efforts" to confront extremism and beat it in our country. He also said the whole country was united in condemning what had happened.
Kirobo - the first humanoid robot to be sent into space is doing a good job of keeping the astronauts entertained. Kirobo was sent up first but had to wait for Japanese astronaut Koichi Wakata to arrive, before he could practise his conversation skills. Kirobo is programmed to process what is being said and he can even build sentences to talk back. He says he's enjoying the experience of zero-gravity and that he wants to ask Santa for a toy rocket this Christmas! Wakata says he's glad to meet Kirobo, and when he asked him how it feels being in a zero-gravity environment, Kirobo said: "I'm used to it now, no problem at all." The creator of the robot, Tomotaka Takahashi, said nobody knew how well Kirobo would be able to answer Wakata's questions. Though Kirobo had some awkward pauses and Wakata spoke more slowly than usual at times in their chat, Takahashi said conversations smoothed out over time. Kirobo took off from Japan's Tanegashima Space Center for the International Space Station this summer aboard a space cargo transporter. Wakata arrived in November. 
Luis Suarez has signed a new four-and-a-half-year contract with Liverpool. The Uruguayan striker tried to force a £40m move to Arsenal in the summer but has scored 17 goals in 11 games this season. Liverpool are currently second in the Premier League and Suarez says he believes he can win trophies with the reds. Suarez will earn around £160,000 until the end of this season and then £200,000 a week after that. He said: "I am delighted to have agreed a new deal with Liverpool and have my future secured for the long term. "I believe I can achieve the ambitions of winning trophies and playing at the very highest level with Liverpool. "My aim is to help get us there as quickly as possible." Liverpool manager Brendan Rodgers said: "This is fantastic news for everyone associated with the club. "Luis is a world-class talent and securing his services is crucial for what we are trying to achieve here."
An investigation has started to find out why part of a theatre collapsed last night, hurting dozens of people. A section of the roof at London's Apollo theatre in the West End fell down during the show. Emergency services say 76 people were injured. The theatre had been almost full with 720 people watching the performance. London's emergency crews are being praised for their quick work, with many people saying they were on scene 'in minutes'. The emergency response included 25 ambulance crews, an air ambulance rapid response team, eight fire engines and more than 50 firefighters. The Apollo is a Grade II listed building, which was was built in 1901 and has 775 seats over four levels.
An analysis of a Neanderthal's fossilised hyoid bone - a horseshoe-shaped structure in the neck - suggests the species had the ability to speak. This has been suspected since the 1989 discovery of a Neanderthal hyoid that looks just like a modern human's. But now computer modelling of how it works has shown this bone was also used in a very similar way. Scientists say its study is "highly suggestive" of complex speech in Neanderthals. An international team of researchers analysed a fossil Neanderthal throat bone using 3D x-ray imaging and mechanical modelling. This model allowed the group to see how the hyoid behaved in relation to the other surrounding bones. Stephen Wroe, from the University of New England, Armidale, NSW, Australia, said: "Many would argue that our capacity for speech and language is among the most fundamental of characteristics that make us human. If Neanderthals also had language then they were truly human, too."
Chessington World of Adventure is closed after a fire at a cafe on site. Luckily the park was not yet open when the fire broke out early in the morning. No one was hurt and the animals are all safe too. The fire service were able to get the fire under control. The theme park and zoo will be closed while the cause of the fire is investigated.
Astronauts at the International Space Station have completed the first of a series of spacewalks to carry out urgent repairs. The two American astronauts, Rick Mastracchio and Mike Hopkins, were outside the station for nearly six hours. They had to remove a pump - the size of a refrigerator - which had become faulty. On their second spacewalk, planned for Tuesday, they will install a new one. The pump is part of the station's cooling system - half of which automatically shut down last week after detecting abnormal temperatures. Nasa said that a scheduled third spacewalk may not be necessary now, because of the success of Saturday's spacewalk.
Chessington World of Adventures will stay closed to day visitors until 26 December, following a fire that broke out at one of their restaurants. The fire at the Surrey theme park has lead to a reduced capacity so only guests staying at the resort's hotel will be able to visit. Chessington is offering refunds to any one who had booked day tickets in advance. The fire broke out around 8.30am on 21 December, before the park was open. Chessington say it was quickly brought under control and that the fire services had left by 3pm. No one was hurt and the park's animals are all said to be safe too.
The volume of sea ice in the Arctic has increased in the past year, compared to previous years. New satellite data measured almost 9,000 cubic km of ice at the end of this year's melt season, 50% more than at the same point in 2012. The increase could be good news for the Arctic region, as the amount of ice there, has declined in recent years. A colder summer and more older ice being retained could both be contributing factors in the increase. Scientists warn: 'Don't get too excited' But scientists are keen not to read too much into just one year's recovery. Professor Andy Shepherd from University College London said: "Although the recovery of Arctic sea ice is certainly welcome news, it has to be considered against the backdrop of changes that have occurred over the last few decades. "It's estimated that there were around 20,000 cu km of Arctic sea ice each October in the early 1980s, and so today's minimum still ranks among the lowest of the past 30 years."
China's Jade Rabbit rover has started sending photos of the Moon to Earth. It's the first rover to be sent to the lunar surface in nearly 40 years. Jade Rabbit rolled off its lunar lander and began taking photos of the lander, as well as the surface of the moon. The name Jade Rabbit comes from an ancient Chinese myth about a rabbit living on the moon as the pet of the lunar goddess Chang'e. The name was chosen in an online poll of 3.4 million voters. The six-wheeled Chinese vehicle carries some high tech gadgets, including a ground-penetrating radar which will gather measurements of the lunar soil and crust. It can travel at 200 metres per hour and climb slopes of up to 30 degrees. The lander will operate on the Moon for a year and the rover is expected to work for three months. The mission is designed to test new technologies, gather scientific data and provide more information about Earth's dusty neighbour. 
The government's promised tougher action to stop people being forced to work against their will in the UK. It's known as modern slavery and usually involves people being brought to the UK illegally from poorer parts of the world, to work. Because the crime is carried out in secret it's hard for the authorities to know how many people are affected. But under new rules set out by the government, criminals involved could now face life in prison. There will also be a new anti-slavery commissioner to make sure the law works and hope these measures will reduce the number of people held in modern slavery in the future. But some people feel the new actions don't go far enough and that more needs to be done to protect the victims, especially children. The government says it expects the changes to become law by 2015. What is modern slavery? In school, you're usually taught about slavery through the stories of African men and women shipped to places like the West Indies and America during the 19th Century, then sold and forced into back-breaking work. Although that kind of slavery was abolished in the British Empire back in 1833, a different kind still exists today, known as modern slavery. According to the International Labour Organisation around 21 million men, women and children around the world are in slavery.
Chocolate maker Mars has reduced the size of its Mars and Snickers bars, but kept the price the same. The weight of a Mars bar has dropped from 58 grams to 51 and Snickers has gone from 58g to 48g. Mars says it's to encourage people to eat more healthily and keep the number of calories (the energy contained) in a standard bar, to fewer than 250. Last year, Cadbury's said rising cocoa prices forced them to shrink Dairy Milk bars and keep the price the same. And it's not the first time Mars has reduced the size of a bar - in 2009, the size reduced from 62.5g to 58. But it's not just chocolate makers - many other food items and other products sold in supermarkets are gradually becoming smaller, but costing the same. A spokesperson for Mars said: "As part of our global commitment to promote responsible consumption, and as a signatory of the Responsibility Deal's calorie reduction pledge, we made a commitment to ensure that all of our single-serve chocolate products would contain no more than 250 calories per portion by the end of 2013. "To meet our commitment, having taken product reformulation as far as we can for now without compromising the great taste, we have reduced the portion size of Mars and Snickers to bring down the calorie content."
Six people, including former Premier League star DJ Campbell, have been questioned over claims about match fixing in football.Campbell, who now plays for Championship side Blackburn, was one of six people arrested on Sunday. The National Crime Agency said five of them have been released on bail. It comes after ex-Portsmouth player, Sam Sodje, is alleged to have told an undercover reporter he could arrange for players to be booked or sent off in exchange for cash. Portsmouth FC said it was "shocked" by the claims. The other five people being held alongside DJ Campbell have not been named. Former Nigerian international Sam Sodje made nine appearances for Portsmouth last season. He was secretly filmed by the Sun on Sunday newspaper describing how he had punched an opponent in a League One game to get a red card in exchange for £70,000. He was sent off in the 50th minute of a League One match while playing for Portsmouth against Oldham Athletic on 23 February. His team was losing 1-0, which remained the final score. DJ Campbell played in the Premier League for Birmingham, Blackpool and QPR. Blackburn Rovers released a statement saying: "Following reports in today's national media, Blackburn Rovers can confirm that striker DJ Campbell has been arrested. "The club will be making no further comment on what is now an ongoing legal matter." Police have not named the other five people who are being questioned. People around the world bet on lots of different things that can happen during football matches to try and win money, such as the number of yellow cards or throw ins, and not just the end result of games. Some of the match fixing claims are based around people trying to influence those kinds of things. In a separate story in February we reported on allegations of "match fixing" after the news that European police were investigating nearly 700 football matches they believed may have been deliberately fixed, including World Cup qualifiers and a Champions League match played in England.
The coldest place on Earth has been discovered by a satellite, with a temperature of -93.2C (-135.8F). It was recorded in the heart of Antarctica, on 10 August, 2010. This is an initial figure too - the actual air temperature at the time may turn out to have been even colder, researchers say.Before this, the lowest temperature recorded was -89.2C, at the Russian Vostok base on 21 July, 1983 in Antarctica. "These very low temperatures are hard to imagine, I know," said Ted Scambos from the US National Snow and Ice Data Center in Boulder, Colorado. "The way I like to put it is that it's almost as cold below freezing as boiling water is above freezing." "It makes the cold snap being experienced in some places in North America right now seem very tame by comparison," he told BBC News. He's been examining the data records from polar orbiting satellites for more than 30 years. They find the coldest moments in Antarctica happen in the dark winter months, where the extremely dry and clear air allows heat to be lost to into space. One of the spacecraft instruments being used in the study is the Thermal Infrared Sensor on the recently launched Landsat-8. But because it is so new the team says more time is needed to fully understand its data. The hottest recorded spot on Earth - again by satellite sensor - is the Dasht-e Lut salt desert in southeast Iran, where it reached 70.7C in 2005. Neither of these discoveries will be making it into the Guinness Book of World Records yet though, as the scientists say the numbers may have to be adjusted over the coming year and could be more or less than already recorded.
Canada plans to make a claim that the North Pole comes under their territory, according to the country's foreign affairs minister. The Canadian government has asked scientists to determine how far the country's continent extends under the Pole, which is currently claimed by no-one. The results of the survey will be submitted to international organisation, the United Nations, for consideration. Currently, under international law, Canada, Denmark, Norway, Russia and the US - the five countries with territories near the Arctic Circle - are allotted 200 nautical miles from their northern coasts. The Arctic is full of resources and shipping routes that could benefit the country if they can claim ownership. A US Geological Survey says the region contains 30% of the world's undiscovered natural gas and 15% of oil. 
Photos and other info from Nasa's Curiosity Mars rover suggest a crater on the planet once contained water which could have supported life. Curiosity drilled into the Gale crater - a 90-mile-wide hole created when a meteor hit the planet about 3.7bn years ago - and found fine clay minerals. Scientists say those minerals could mean that a freshwater lake existed there for more than 100,000 years. And fresh water is more likely to support life, experts say. "The presence of these minerals tells us the water was likely to be fresh water, which means it's much more conducive for microbial life," said Sanjeev Gupta, a geologist at Imperial College, London, and a member of the Curiosity science team. "These rocks are similar to those we would find if we walked along the Dorset or Devon coast line," he added. Writing in the journal, Science, researchers explain that the conditions in the lake were well suited to support a type of microbial life called chemolithoautotrophs. These organisms are found on Earth deep underground, in caves and at the bottom of the ocean. They survive by breaking down rocks and minerals for energy. Nasa's Curiosity rover landed on Mars in August 2012 on a mission to explore whether the planet may once have been liveable. Curiosity is currently driving towards the foothills of the mountain at the centre of the crater.
World leaders and tens of thousands of South Africans gathered in a huge football stadium today for a memorial service for Nelson Mandela. US President Barack Obama said Mr Mandela was a "giant of history", adding: "The world thanks you for sharing Nelson Mandela with us". Many waited for hours in the rain to get into the huge Johannesburg stadium. It was the venue for the closing ceremony of the 2010 World Cup - Mr Mandela's last public appearance. To an ecstatic cheering crowd, Mr Obama said: "We will never see the likes of Nelson Mandela again. While I will always fall short of Madiba (Mr Mandela's clan name), he makes me want to be a better man." UN boss Ban Ki-moon also paid tribute, saying: "Mandela hated hatred. Not the people. He showed wholesome power of forgiveness. A unique gift." But South African President Jacob Zuma was booed by a noisy crowd each time his face appeared on the big screens. He has recently been accused of spending too much government money on improvements to his official house. The service - including prayers of different religions and songs of remembrance - lasted four hours and was shown on big screens at three "overflow" stadiums. Nelson Mandela, who was South Africa's first black president, died last Thursday aged 95. Yesterday members of the UK government stopped work to pay tribute to Nelson Mandela at the Houses of Parliament. They said honouring the former South African president was their "principal occupation" of the day. Another event will take place later in the week at Westminster Hall, where Mr Mandela spoke to parliament in 1996. Prince Charles has confirmed that he will travel to South Africa to represent the Queen at the state funeral for Nelson Mandela on Sunday 15 December. On Sunday, people in South Africa held a day of "prayer and reflection". South African President, Jacob Zuma, encouraged people to go to places of worship on Sunday to remember their former President. Since Mandela's death was announced on Thursday, crowds of people have been gathering outside the houses where he lived, lighting candles, praying, singing and dancing in celebration of his life.
A three-day ceremony of events has begun to allow the public to pay their respects to Nelson Mandela. Mr Mandela was South Africa's first black president. He died last Thursday aged 95. A funeral will be held on Sunday 15 December in in his home village of Qunu in Eastern Cape province of South Africa. Until then Mr Mandela's family and the public will be able to visit his body in Pretoria. Nelson Mandela is admired by many all over the world for his work to promote equality and forgiveness. Each day a procession will start at the city's military hospital and Mr Mandela's body will be taken to the Union Buildings. This is called 'lying in state' and it is a tradition to allow people to pay their respects. The Union Buildings are the official seat of the South African government. It is where Mr Mandela was sworn in as the country's first black president in 1994. On Tuesday, world leaders and tens of thousands of South Africans gathered in a huge football stadium in Johannesburg for a memorial service. US President Barack Obama said Mr Mandela was a "giant of history", adding: "The world thanks you for sharing Nelson Mandela with us". To an ecstatic cheering crowd, Mr Obama said: "We will never see the likes of Nelson Mandela again. "While I will always fall short of Madiba's (Mr Mandela's clan name) example, he makes me want to be a better man."
David Cameron, Barack Obama and Denmark's Prime Minister Helle Thorning Schmidt have sparked a debate after they took a 'selfie' at Nelson Mandela's memorial service. The three of them gathered close together to take the snap on a mobile phone. A number of UK newspapers have written about the incident saying it was disrespectful. The Daily Telegraph's Neil Midgley said the image was "quite remarkable". "It was so out of keeping with what the day was about," he said. But Heather Walker, editor of UK-based expatriate community newspaper the South African, argued: "People expected a formal occasion but it turned out to be quite casual. "There were singers, people shouting and I suppose these three took up the tone and spirit, and thought 'well, hey, let's have a bit of fun'."
A former soldier has been fitted with what's thought to be Britain's first mind-controlled bionic limb. Corporal Andrew Garthwaite has been given the high-tech hand after he was injured in Afghanistan three years ago. The device is one of the most advanced prosthetic arms available - Andy can use his brain to control it. Unlike most prosthetic limbs this one can be controlled by thought alone: Andy just has to think about moving his arm and the robotic arm will move. It's been a long process to get to this stage. To prepare for the technology he had six hours of surgery at a hospital in Austria in January 2012 in a procedure called Targeted Muscle Reinnervation (TMR). Surgeons had to rewire his nervous system: they took the nerve endings from his shoulder, that would have run down to his hand - and connected them instead into his chest muscles. The arm was developed by bionics company Otto Bock, in Vienna. The company says this new kind of intelligent prosthetic arm can be controlled using the same nerves in an ordinary arm. The nerves are connected to the device, which the company says helps to produce more natural movements. Andy had to spend months learning how to move the arm with his thoughts. Since having the special surgery Andy feels as though his hand is in his chest. He said: "Because obviously I haven't had a thumb or a finger for the last three years, then all of a sudden to start feeling stuff is a total weird feeling so you have got to train your brain to move this hand." He says it takes a lot of concentration as some thoughts of movement are really powerful: at times, thinking about wiggling his little finger makes his hand spin around a full 360 degrees. This - he says - is "his party trick". He says it looks "very natural and people generally do not notice that it is a prosthesis, but are often surprised as it makes robotic sounds when it moves. Andy also said he was enjoying being able to more around the house and being far more independent.
Riot police have now retreated after they stormed an anti-government protest camp in Kiev, the capital city of Ukraine in eastern Europe. Hundreds of thousands of people have been camped out in the city's central square, calling for the president and his government to stand down. Some people there want Ukraine to have closer ties with Europe but others want it to stay close to Russia. The protestors believe better ties with Europe would give them a better life. They're angry about the government's decision not to sign a deal with the European Union. But President Viktor Yanukovych, and many other Ukrainians, want to remain close to Russia, and think signing an EU deal would put this at risk. Police had clashed with protestors as they tried to clear the square in the city centre, and there were further disturbances at the city hall. The government has now said that the police will no longer use force against the protestors. "I want everyone to calm down," said Interior Minister Vitali Zakharchenko in a statement. "There will be no storming of the square. No one will violate your rights to protest peacefully, but do not ignore the rights... of other citizens."
The asteroid that wiped out the dinosaurs may have catapulted life to places as far off Mars and the moons of Jupiter, US researchers say. They looked at rocks from Earth fired into space by asteroid impacts over the last 3.5 billion years. The Chicxulub impact, thought to have wiped out the dinosaurs, may have been strong enough to reach Jupiter's moons. This means tiny life-forms might have been carried elsewhere in the Solar System, and could even have survived. It's only a theory, as the system has been worked out on a computer program that simulates the journeys asteroids make across space. The idea is that that living organisms could "hitchhike" across the Solar System by becoming attached to comets and debris from meteor strikes. Some astronomers say it could even work in reverse: that life from other planets, most likely Mars, was brought to Earth via meteorites. In the study the researchers worked out how many Earth rocks bigger than 3m wide have been flung into space, because they believe only rocks of this size could shield life forms from the Sun, keeping them alive. It found that 360,000 rocks of that size made it as far as Mars - and 83,000 as far as Jupiter. The head researcher, Rachel Worth from Penn State University in America, said: "We find that rock capable of carrying life has likely transferred from both Earth and Mars to all of the terrestrial planets in the Solar System and Jupiter. "Any missions to search for life on Titan or the moons of Jupiter will have to consider whether biological material is of independent origin, or another branch in Earth's family tree." Using the special computer program, the researchers mapped out the likely journeys of the Earth rocks thrown into space by meteors. Many simply hung around in Earth orbit, or were slowly drawn back down. Others were pulled into the Sun, or sling-shotted out of the Solar System entirely. Yet a small number made it all the way to alien worlds which might welcome life. "Enough that it matters," Ms Worth said. About six rocks even made it as far as Europa, a satellite moon of Jupiter with a liquid ocean covered in an icy crust. "It's still possible that organisms could be swimming around out there in the oceans of Europa," she said. The Chicxulub impact is perhaps the most famous meteor to hit Earth. An object, thought to be a comet about six miles across, landed in Mexico about 65 million years ago, and has been blamed for the mass extinction of the dinosaurs, triggering volcanic eruptions and wildfires that choked the planet with smoke and dust. Ms Worth and her team are interested in this impact because the sheer size of it meant it launched around 70 billion kg of rock into space. The researchers say the chances of this rock carrying life out there with it are "better than 50/50." But could living organisms actually survive these epic trips? "I'd be surprised if life hasn't gotten to Mars," Ms Worth told BBC News. "It's beyond the scope of our study. But it seems reasonable that at some point some Earth organisms have made it over there."
A supervolcano, that lies beneath the Yellowstone National Park in the United States, is far larger than was previously thought, say scientists. A study shows that the magma chamber is about 2.5 times bigger than earlier estimates suggested. A team found the cavern stretches for more than 90km (55 miles) and is 30km wide (20 miles). In some parts it's up to 15km (9 miles) deep and it's filled with molten rock. But experts say that it's not expected to erupt any time soon. Prof Bob Smith, from the University of Utah, said: “We’ve been working there for a long time, and we’ve always thought it would be bigger... but this finding is astounding." The team used a network of seismometers - machines that measure movement in the ground called seismic waves - that were placed all around the park. They used the information to map areas that contained magma. Dr James Farrell, from the University of Utah, explained: “We record earthquakes in and around Yellowstone, and we measure the seismic waves as they travel through the ground. “The waves travel slower through hot and partially molten material… with this, we can measure what’s beneath. The new maps how the areas holding molten rock spread much further north than previous maps show. “To our knowledge there has been nothing mapped of that size before,” added Dr Farrell. He explained, too, that he's certain there'll be no eruption in the near future. The researchers are using this new information to find out whether the Yellowstone volcano is dangerous and when it will erupt again. “Yes, it is a much larger system… but I don’t think it makes the Yellowstone hazard greater,” explained Prof Bob Smith. He added that researchers were unsure when the supervolcano would blow again. Some believe a massive eruption is overdue, estimating that Yellowstone’s volcano goes off every 700,000 years or so. But Prof Smith said more data was needed, because there had only been three major eruptions so far. These happened 2.1 million years ago, 1.3 million years ago and 640,000 years ago. The last major eruption sent ash across the whole of North America, affecting the planet’s climate. “You can only use the time between eruptions (to work out the frequency), so in a sense you only have two numbers to get to that 700,000 year figure,” he explained. The findings are being presented at the American Geophysical Union Fall Meeting in San Francisco in America.
The Met office still has a yellow warning in place (meaning 'be aware') for parts of London and east Anglia because of thick fog. The dense fog covered big patches of the south-east of England on Wednesday 11 December, causing travel disruption. Heathrow airport had to cancel hundreds of flights and more have been called off on Thursday. Airport bosses say they hope to have their flight schedule back to normal by mid-morning. The Metropolitan police helicopter managed to capture these amazing pictures of the fog, showing the tips of London skyscrapers just poking through. Captain John Roberts was piloting the MPS helicopter, he said: "Fog is a challenging condition to fly around, but once above it we were able to carry out our normal taskings. We only take photos on the way to or from a job and it has no negative impact on our policing purpose - supporting officers on the ground and keeping Londoners safe."
The Earth could have been hit by many more huge earthquakes than previously thought, say scientists. A group of experts from the US Geological Survey says current records of earthquakes from before the 20th century don't make sense. They say it's strange that there are too few records of massive earthquakes measuring more than 8.5 in magnitude. They're now scanning historical documents to see if earthquakes have not been recorded properly. Dr Susan Hough from the US Geological Survey said: "If you try to make a statistical case there are too few earthquakes in the 19th Century." "Seismometers were developed around 1900. As soon as we had them, earthquakes started to look bigger." Dr Hough believes that many large earthquakes in the 18th and 19th Century have been missed, or recorded as much less powerful than they really were. The researchers say finding these lost earthquakes is important to help them find out where and when massive earthquakes could strike next.
Thousands of Syrian refugees are facing freezing temperatures and difficult weather conditions as snowstorms have hit areas where they've set up camps. Families have been fleeing their homes in Syria because of fighting between the President Bashar al-Assad's forces and rebel groups who want him out. Many of them set up makeshift homes near the border with Lebanon. Over the past week the weather has become harsh with temperatures dropping so low icicles have formed on the huts. Clothes that have been left to dry have frozen stiff. There are around 800,000 refugees living in the Beqaa valley area in east Lebanon. As they are not allowed to set up home officially they are living in shacks and tents which don't provide good enough protection from the weather. Families are doing their best to survive in the harsh conditions, and the army and charities are doing their best to get emergency supplies and blankets out to them. Beqaa valley is not the only camp to be hit with extreme weather. At the Zaatari camp in northern Jordan, also on the border with Syria, authorities have installed thousands of caravans ready for the rain falling this week and the flooding it could cause. But there are still thousands there living in tents - and those families face a long and difficult winter ahead; at least they are away from the war that still rages in their home country.
The number of people regularly taking part in sport has risen by 1.5 million since London won the bid to host the 2012 Olympics, back in 2005. In the last year, 15.5 million in England people took part in a sports activity at least once a week. But it's not all good news: the number of 16- to 25-year-olds doing regular sport has gone down to 3.74 million. And fewer people are doing traditional sports like football, netball, swimming, golf, tennis and cricket. Sport England do the survey twice a year in April and October. The boss of Sport England, Jennie Price, said: "We are concerned about the results for young people. Although the majority of 16-25 year olds still play sport regularly, the numbers are not going up. "The evidence shows a sharp drop in the popularity of traditional sports, like football and netball, and we need to make sure they have a wider range of sporting activities to choose from." Despite Andy Murray's triumphant win at Wimbledon this summer, nearly 40,000 fewer people are playing tennis in England. But the number of disabled people playing sport each week has increased by 62,000, to a record high of 1.67 million. The most popular sport in England is swimming: nearly three million people go to the pool every week. The figures come from Sport England, who do the Active People survey twice a year, in April and October. It shows the number of people aged 16 and over playing at least 30 minutes of fairly energetic sport, at least once a week.
The violence in Syria began in March 2011. The middle eastern country has been crippled by a brutal civil war. Since then, the United Nations estimates more than 100,000 people have died in the clashes between President Bashar al-Assad's government and rebel forces who want him out. The UN also says more than two million people have fled Syria to neighbouring countries, and over half of those refugees are children. In July 2012, the International Red Cross said the violence in Syria had become so widespread that it was in a state of civil war. But what are the reasons behind the violence? And what is being done to stop it getting any worse? How did it all start? The trouble began in 2011 in the Syrian city of Deraa. Locals took to the streets to protest after 15 schoolchildren had been arrested - and reportedly tortured - for writing anti-government graffiti on a wall. The protests were peaceful to begin with, calling for the kids' release, democracy and greater freedom for people in the country. The government responded angrily, and on 18 March 2011, the army opened fire on protesters, killing four people. The following day, they shot at mourners at the victims' funerals, killing another person. People were shocked and angry at what had happened and soon the unrest had spread to other parts of the country. At first the protesters just wanted democracy and greater freedom. But once government forces opened fire on peaceful demonstrations, people demanded that the President, Bashar al-Assad, resign. President Assad refused to step down. As the violence worsened he offered to change some things about the way the country is run, but the protesters didn't believe him. President Assad also has quite a lot of people in Syria that still support him and his government. There isn't a clear single group of rebels, united against President Assad. The opposition, who all want the president to step down, is split between groups of rebel fighters, political parties and people living in exile, who cannot return to the country. The Free Syrian Army is the largest group fighting military battles against the government. It's far smaller than the government's army; it's poorly equipped and most of its fighters have only had basic training. There are many smaller military groups all fighting against the government, but they are not under the control of the Free Syrian Army and some of them hold extreme views against western countries. Other opposition groups try to distance themselves from the violence. Instead they claim to offer an alternative to the current government and propose a peaceful political solution to the crisis. There has been increasing pressure on the international community to act after it emerged that chemical weapons are being used in the war. But in August 2013, a chemical attack just outside the Syrian capital, Damascus, caused a strong reaction from the likes of America, Britain and France. After the effects of these weapons were seen, there were long discussions over what the rest of the world should do. In September 2013, United Nations inspectors confirmed that chemical weapons had been used in Syria, but the report did not say who was responsible. Syria, however, denies using chemical weapons, which are banned under international law because the effects of their use are so horrific. The government said: "There is no country in the world that uses a weapon of ultimate destruction against its own people." It blamed the rebel forces for the chemical attack. The chemical attack caused international outrage and many leaders argued it demanded a strong response. But MPs in Westminster voted against Britain being involved in military action in Syria. The American and French governments discussed limited missile strikes against military targets in Syria. But Russia has strong ties with President Assad's Syrian government and has helped Syria in the past by supplying weapons. In September 2013 Russia suggested a solution that could avoid a wider conflict: that the Syrian government should give up its chemical weapons and commit to destroying them so they can never again be used. The process of destroying the weapons began in October, and the people working on this project were awarded the Nobel Peace Prize later that month. Many ordinary Syrian people have been caught up in the violence of the war and have been forced to leave their homes to escape to other countries. Every day refugees stream across the borders of Syria into the neighbouring nations of Jordan, Lebanon, Turkey and Iraq. In August 2013 the United Nations said that the number of Syrian children who'd been forced to flee the country had reached one million. Millions more have been displaced within Syria and are in desperate need of help. But aid agencies say that getting aid to people inside Syria is too difficult and dangerous. It doesn't look like the fighting is going to end any time soon. There appears to be a stalemate between the two sides: the government forces are unable to defeat the rebel groups and vice versa. The leading rebel group the Free Syrian Army has the support of the US, Britain and other European countries, but those countries say they cannot help the rebels by sending weapons because they don't want them to get into the wrong hands. There are some Syrian rebel groups that the US and Britain fear could be dangerous. This is a subject of much debate as many people believe the Free Syrian Army need weapons to defend themselves and to fight for their cause. In December 2013 the US and Britain stopped all 'non-lethal' supplies to the Syrian rebel groups too. Non-lethal supplies means things like medicine, vehicles and communication equipment. The countries have continued to supply aid such as food and emergency supplies, but the US and Britain said they had to stop all other support as they feared the equipment would be stolen by rebel groups which they did not support. For now, discussions continue between powerful nations like the US, Russia, Britain and France, to try to work out if there's another way to help Syria achieve peace.
A cafe in France has hit the headlines after it changed its prices to encourage customers to be more polite. La Petite Syrah in Nice has different prices for different coffees, as you'd expect. But instead of added costs for extra syrup this cafe charges more if you forget to say "bonjour" or "s'il vous plait," which are the French words for "hello" and "please". Customers will be charged 7 euros (£5.90) for saying just "un cafe" ("a coffee") - but saying "Bonjour, un cafe, s'il vous plait" ("Hello - can I have a coffee, please?") means you pay just 1.40 euros (£1.20). The owner said this started as a joke but he says it has made his customers smile more. "It started as a joke because at lunchtime people would come in very stressed and were sometimes rude to us when they ordered a coffee," Mr Pepino told the English-language website The Local. "It's our way of saying 'keep calm and carry on'... customers can be rude when they're busy," he said.
Astronaut Chris Hadfield has kept us well and truly entertained with his videos detailing life in space. He showed us how to make a sandwich in space, how he brushed his teeth, and even recorded his own version of a famous David Bowie song, Space Oddity. The Canadian spaceman returned from a half-year mission to the International Space Station in May. He tells Ayshah about his adventures and what life is like back on Earth. 
Newsround's Ricky is in South Africa, talking to children there about what Mandela means to them and what kind of nation he leaves behind. Ricky visited children at a school in Soweto, where Mandela spent much of his younger years, to speak to them about the former leader. One girl told Ricky that she sees Mandela as a "global icon, partly because he symbolises peace." South Africa is preparing to say a final goodbye to Nelson Mandela at his funeral this Sunday. Thousands of people will line the streets once again to pay their final respects to the man who helped to end the racist system of apartheid and unite the country. The former leader of South Africa passed away last week. Tributes have been taking place across the world, including a memorial service on Tuesday in Johannesburg, which was attended by lots of world leaders.
Firefighters in England and Wales will go on strike today and tomorrow , in a row with the government over pensions. Fire Brigades Union members will walk out for four hours at 6:00pm on Friday, and again on Saturday, with threats of more strikes in 2014. They're still going to any major fires, but fire bosses advised people to take extra care with home cooking. The government says the strike action is completely unnecessary and will harm the reputation of firefighters. There were strikes earlier this year too - the union are concerned about government plans to raise the age firefighters need to retire. At the moment firefighters can retire at the age of 55, but the government wants to raise that age to 60.
The world's largest ever gingerbread structure has been revealed in New York! It's not just a house - oh no. It's an entire village made of the sweet stuff! Gingerbread Lane is packed with candy canes, sweets and a whole load of super-sweet icing. The sugary village has a fire station, town hall, subway station and even an ice rink. The chef, Jon Lovitch from New York, is a very, very proud man.
Prince Harry and his fellow adventurers in the Walking With The Wounded trek have arrived at the South Pole. The group stood at the bottom of the world at 12pm after more than three weeks of pulling sleds. Twelve injured servicemen and women from the UK, the US and the Commonwealth were on the 200-mile walk. Team UK, which includes the prince and four injured British soldiers, had been racing against a US team, and a team made up of Canadians and Australians. But, the conditions were too dangerous because of "difficult terrain" and so they continued as one group. In a voice blog recorded on Wednesday, the prince said: "A half-day on Friday and we get to the South Pole on Friday 13th, unlucky for some, lucky for us." All those on the trek across Antarctica were in "high spirits", he said. "I think everyone is feeling a bit tired, but slowly getting into the rhythm. Only just got into the rhythm now and it has almost finished." He praised his UK team-mate, Sgt Duncan Slater, from Muir of Ord, who lost both his legs in Afghanistan in 2009. He said: "I think everyone back home will appreciate the fact that just being able to walk 100km (62 miles) in these conditions with no legs is a pretty amazing feat in itself."
A bomb exploded in Belfast on Friday evening, forcing hundreds of people to be evacuated from a part of the city. It was a small explosion and no one was injured, but police say it could have killed or seriously injured anyone nearby. A warning about the bomb had been phoned to a newspaper which prompted the evacuation. However police say the bomb had been left in a different place to what had been said on the phone. The bomb is being blamed on dissident republicans - people who don't support the current peace agreements in place in Northern Ireland.
A huge mud volcano that's been erupting continuously for seven years could stop sooner than expected, say scientists. It had been thought that the eruption of Lusi volcano, which is Indonesia in south-east Asia, would keep going until the 2030s. But new satellite data now shows it's likely to stop by the end of this decade. The eruption of the mud volcano started in 2006 and is the largest of its kind. It forced tens of thousands of people to move away. But now Professor Manga from the University of California in America says: "By 2017, it should be more or less over." He says that within a few years only about a 1,000 tonnes of mud will be spewing out each day - that's like a thousand pick-up trucks per day. "Small enough that it won't be a hazard, [but] maybe interesting enough still to be a tourist destination."
China has become the first country in 37 years to land a spacecraft on the Moon. They've announced that their unmanned craft has successfully landed on a flat area called the Bay of Rainbows. It makes China the third country to send a craft to land on and explore the Moon's surface. A six wheeled robotic rover named Yutu will now explore and carry out scientific experiments. It's a big step for Chinese space authorities who say one day they hope to send a man to the Moon too.
The funeral for the former South African president Nelson Mandela has taken place in Qunu, the village where he spent much of his childhood. It brings to an end a week of commemorations for the country's first black leader. Around 4,500 people, including foreign dignitaries such as Prince Charles, attended the funeral. The service included tributes from members of Mandela's family as well as world leaders. After the funeral ceremony, a smaller group of guests attended Mandela's private burial. The former leader of South Africa passed away last week and since then tributes have been taking place across the world, including a memorial service on Tuesday in Johannesburg, which was attended by lots of world leaders.
Construction work at a stadium being built for the World Cup in Brazil, has been halted over safety concerns. It's after a worker died on Saturday at the Arena da Amazonia building site in the city of Manaus. Contractors had suspended work at the stadium until Sunday but a court in Brazil has now halted work until a report on the site's safety conditions is reported. Half of the 12 stadiums being built for the tournament are behind schedule.
Heating our homes is getting more expensive because most of the big energy companies are putting their prices up. With winter in full swing it's nice to get home and warm yourself up next to the radiator. But the rise in energy prices means some families this winter might struggle to pay their bills. The energy companies say nobody should be afraid to put the heating on. They say help is there for those who need it most. Watch Ayshah's report where she meets a family and sees what it means for them. Where does energy come from and how do the prices get decided? Check out our explainer below from BBC reporter Steph McGovern.
Investigators in New York are trying to find out what caused a train crash in the Bronx area of the city. The passenger train was carrying about 120 people when it came off the tracks as it went round a bend near the Hudson River. Four carriages came off the tracks. Police say four people have died and 60 are injured. The authorities in New York are describing it as the worst train crash in decades.
Today has been nicknamed Cyber Monday because it is usually the busiest online shopping day of the year. Experts reckon £450 million will be spent on gifts in the next 24 hours - that's around £312,000 a minute! It's predicted there will be 7.7 million online transactions; a 16% increase compared to this day last year. Well, of course the main reason is because Christmas is getting nearer, and today is the first Monday of December, but experts say the media attention could add to sales too. Shopping expert Bryan Roberts, said that the amount of "hype" around these promotional days mean they can become big, well-known events very quickly. He says clever advertising helps to encourage shoppers to get online.
Imagine ordering something online, then half an hour later, it's dropped off for you by a mini-drone. It might sound like science fiction, but online retailer Amazon said it's currently testing out the delivery method, and hopes to bring it to its customers in the next five years. Amazon says the 'Octocopter' drones could deliver items to customers within 30 minutes of them placing an order. But US and European law doesn't yet allow drones to be used this way. In America it's expected that laws will be introduced in 2015, while much of Europe is to get new laws covering drones in 2016. Amazon boss Jeff Bezos said in an interview on American TV that the company is ready to roll out its drone delivery system, known as Prime Air, as soon as those laws are in place. However, some UAV experts (Unmanned Aerial Vehicles) say more needs to be done to make sure the drones are safe before laws can be passed. Dr Darren Ansell, a UAV expert from the University of Central Lancashire said: "The UAVs do not currently have the awareness of their environment to be able to avoid flying into people. "To deliver goods to people's homes for example in residential areas, the UAVs must overfly densely populated towns and cities, something that today's regulations prevent. "Other things to consider are security of the goods during the transit. With no one to guard them the aircraft and package could be captured and stolen," he said. An Australian firm called Zookal, that delivers textbooks for rent, announced earlier this year that it would start using drones to make deliveries from 2015 if approved by Australia's Civil Aviation Safety Authority. Australian law already allows businesses to use unmanned aircraft.
Sports stars and bosses have shown support for Olympic diver Tom Daley after he revealed he has a boyfriend. On YouTube the 19-year-old said: "In spring this year my life changed massively when I met someone, and they make me feel so happy, so safe and everything just feels great. "That someone is a guy," he continued. It's being seen as a big step for Tom to say this, because in the past some sportspeople have said that it's very difficult to be open about being gay. Former England football star Gary Lineker tweeted: "Delighted that Tom is happy in his new relationship. Well done for sharing it. Good luck to them both." Also on Twitter, Edward Lord, boss of the Amateur Swimming Association, said Tom was "very brave" and that he was "proud of him". He added: "My mum has been so supportive as well. All of my friends and family that I've told have been so supportive, which has been great. "My friends and family have supported me and I hope you guys can too. "I still want to win an Olympic gold medal in Rio in 2016 for Britain. "I'm still as motivated as ever to do that." Tom, who's from Plymouth in Devon, is busy presenting a second series of ITV's dive show Splash.
Emergency teams have completed their search at the site of the helicopter crash in Glasgow, in Scotland. The aircraft has been removed and has been taken away to be studied by investigators so they can try and work out what happened. The helicopter had three people on board at the time of the crash; a pilot and two police officers. It landed on a busy pub called The Clutha, near the River Clyde in the city centre. It's thought more than a hundred people were in the pub at the time watching a band perform. Nine people died in the crash, and police have now named all of the victims. Eleven people are still being treated in hospital. Accidents like this are very rare and helicopters are used safely every day, all over the world - so it's a big shock when a crash like this happens. The helicopter, which is an EC135 T2 aircraft, was loaded on to a lorry and taken to the Air Accidents Investigation Branch (AAIB) base in Farnborough, Hampshire. AAIB deputy chief inspector David Miller said the pilot had not made a mayday call before it crashed. He said: "There were no emergency transmissions from the pilot before this accident." He added: "I can confirm that the helicopter does not have a flight data recorder. However, it does have a significant number of modern electronic systems on board and it may be possible to recover recorded data from those systems." The data flight recorder, also known as a black box, logs information about the aircraft and its journey. Investigators often use these to work out if there were any mechanical faults with an aircraft. But the helicopter didn't have one so it may take much longer to work out what happened. The remains of the aircraft will now be labelled and then examined before a full report is made.
Imagine leaving your home, friends and family to fight in a war at just 13 years old. It seems hard to believe but that's what's been happening to thousands of children in Colombia, South America. The children are being forced to fight on the front lines of Colombia's war between the government and rebels. The rebel army is unhappy with the government, and they recruit youngsters to help them fight for their cause. Rebels sometimes offer children gifts like trainers and mobile phones to get them to join them. But now more and more child soldiers are handing in their weapons, so they can try and have the sorts of lives other Colombian teenagers have. The government has promised to take children who run away from the army to a safe place - a farm in the mountains. It's also warning others not to be tempted by gifts. The rebel group and the government are now holding peace talks, and it's hoped this could one day mean all child soldiers are free to have normal lives.
It looks like a space ship from the distant future but these pictures are plans for an underwater hotel. A company in Poland plans to build the hotel which can be moved to any chosen (and suitable) location in the sea. The structure gets bolted down on the sea bed, with the hotel rooms floating about 15m (50ft) beneath the surface. Seems amazing - but this isn't the first hotel to offer underwater views from the bedrooms. The two-bedroom Jules' Undersea Lodge, off the coast of Florida - has been taking guests 31ft beneath the surface since 1986! The construction was previously used in the 1970s as a marine laboratory under the sea off the coast of Puerto Rico. The whole building is underwater, and you can only get to it by swimming diving down using scuba gear and entering through an opening at the bottom. But guests must be able to swim. Teresa McKinna, who works at the hotel, says that the lodge is equipped with a television, air conditioning and wi-fi - guests can even have pizza delivered down by divers using waterproof boxes! She says the pressure in the hotel is the same as on the surface, so there is no limit to the length of time guests can stay. But, she also says that guests should not dive or fly for 24 hours after staying overnight. The latest underwater hotel room to be unveiled is at the Manta Resort in Tanzania, off the coast of Pemba Island. It is unusual because, unlike Water Discus or Jules' Undersea Lodge, it is not supported by the ocean floor. Instead, it is attached to a structure that floats on the surface of the sea, and which is anchored to the sea floor like a boat to prevent it drifting off. Guests enter the hotel room by going down a flight of stairs from the floating structure.
Leah's been to the Philippines to find out how children there are coping following one of the most powerful storms ever, Typhoon Haiyan. In this diary she tells the story of how kids on the islands are helping with the relief efforts, and explores the reality of how some children are having to go to school after the disaster. It's almost three weeks since Typhoon Haiyan devastated much of the Philippines. The islands of Cebu and Leyte were the hardest hit. I travelled to Cebu where, during the storm, winds reached up to 200 miles per hour, homes were swept away and people's lives were changed forever. And it was in Cebu City itself where I found an inspirational group of children and teenagers who were doing their bit to help with the relief effort. After being at school during the day they would spend some of their evening with their class mate sorting aid supplies which included rice, water and tins of sardines and meat loaf. Many of the children I spoke to here told me it was important for them to help their people when they're most in need. Along the route to Bogo City there was a trail of destruction and the local school was badly hit too. I had a look around Northern Cebu College which is for 8-15 year olds. The old building was in a bad way the roof was torn away and the rain left many of the classrooms damp and full of debris. The entire wall in the computer room caved in and all of the equipment was now useless, but despite all of this classes are still going on. I managed to speak to some of the children to see how they were dealing with what happened and although their families are safe many were upset about losing their homes. But as they look to the future and start to rebuild their lives there was a sense of hope, some children told me they wanted to be teachers or doctors to help the community that had pulled together to help them. And while people here are starting to get back on their feet countries from all over the world were helping with the relief effort too. At Mactan Airport I watched as the Royal Australian Air Force took off in a Hercules plane with vital supplies for some of the worst affected areas. It was reassuring to see the relief operation underway and to know that in time the aid will get to the people that need it most.
Children living with foster families in England will be allowed to stay with them until they are 21, ministers say. The Department for Education says it will make councils provide support to people who want to stay with their foster carers a bit longer. The government says it will provide £40million over the next three years to fund the plans, to begin next year. The Who Cares Trust, which supports children in care, said the move was "absolutely fantastic news". Boss Natasha Finlayson said: "It is excellent news that the government has agreed that young people leaving foster care should not be left to fend for themselves at 18."
Some American football fans were so raucous on Monday that they registered as a minor earthquake, a research group has said. Fans jumped up and down after a touchdown at a match between Seattle Seahawks and the New Orleans Saints. The Pacific Northwest Seismic Network (PNSN) detected vibrations that measured between a magnitude one and two quake. The match took place in Seattle in the US state of Washington. PNSN director John Vidale told news channel CNN that five separate 'earthquakes' were recorded during the game.
A girl has apologised to a department store after breaking a Christmas tree bauble - by sending two pound coins in the post. Five-year-old Faith wrote to John Lewis after the decorative disaster on Saturday. The letter said: "I'm sorry I broke a Christmas bauble. Here is the money for it." Manager Dominic Joyce said he would send Faith a present to say thank you for her honesty. He managed to track Faith down after her mum rang the store. "We think the drawing is of her holding the bauble - it may be a self portrait," said Dominic.
The UK should become a world leader for the development of driverless cars, the government has announced. It has offered a £10million prize to help turn a UK town or city into a testing ground for self-driving cars. It will also review laws next year to make sure it's easier for companies to test them on UK roads. The town of Milton Keynes is already experimenting with driverless "pods". There are plans to run 100 self-driving vehicles on the town's pavements. The cars use sensors to avoid collisions.
The Chancellor George Osborne has said there'll be free school meals for all Year 1 and Year 2 kids in English primary schools from next September. He made a speech today in Parliament about the government's spending plans, called the Autumn Statement. There'll also be an extra £150m to update and build kitchens and dining rooms in primary schools in England. The Labour party says the government's done nothing about the "cost of living crisis" facing many people in Britain. George Osborne says the UK's economy is growing faster than any other major developed country; but the job of recovery is "not yet done". The Chancellor announced more money to be invested in energy, transport, communications, and water projects. But there will also be £1billion more cuts in funding for government departments. In his speech, Mr Osborne said he realised times are still hard: "The effects of the financial crash on family budgets and the cost of living are still being felt." "So where we can afford to help hardworking families, we will continue to do so." The Chancellor, who's in charge of how Britain spends its money, makes two important speeches in the House of Commons each year about how the economy is doing. There's the Budget, in the spring, and the Autumn Statement, which used to take place in November but has moved to December in recent years.
People around the world have been reacting to the news that Nelson Mandela, one of history's greatest leaders, has died after a long illness aged 95. Mandela led South Africa out of the racist system of apartheid, and into democracy, becoming the country's first black president. He had been receiving intensive medical care at home for a lung infection after three months in hospital. Announcing the news on South African TV President Jacob Zuma said: "Our nation has lost its greatest son." "Although we knew that this day would come, nothing can diminish our sense of a profound and enduring loss." Mandela's story is an incredible journey - from prison to presidency. After being jailed for 27 years he became South Africa's first ever black president. He went on to play an important role in promoting peace and equality across the globe. World leaders, celebrities and ordinary people have been paying their tributes to him. Prince William, American President Barack Obama, British Prime Minister David Cameron and sports stars David Beckham and Usain Bolt are among who've said how he inspired them.School children in the UK have been giving their reaction to the news. Kids from Walworth Academy, in London, have been in touch with the BBC's School Report. Hawa, in year 8, said: "When I found out that Nelson Mandela passed away I was in so much shock. He was a leader, a father and a husband. He was my hero." Danny, in year 9 , said he is "very emotional and upset. However, I am happy that his legacy will live on". Khalil said: "He was one of the most influential people of all time. Without him many black politicians would not be in power today, like Barack Obama." And other pupils from Whalley Range in Manchester added their voices to the tributes. They said: "As a school we are commemorating Nelson Madela's memory through a whole school minute silence and a tribute video that our media team have created." Aya, a year 8 student, said: "Everyone is going to remember the difference he has made - He's a true pioneer for Black peoples' rights. People like me wouldn't be here today if it wasn't for people like Mandela fighting for our rights.' And Maryan added: "He's a true legend and he's proven if you fight for your rights, you can make a difference."
A tidal surge has hit towns and cities on the east coast of Britain, causing flooding and forcing thousands of people out of their homes. The North Sea surge, which weather forecasters say could be the worst for 60 years, reached north Norfolk on Thursday night and made its way south through the night. Flood waters have started to reduce in many areas but there's warnings there could be further high tides later on Friday. Scotland is facing snow alerts after a fierce storm, which killed two people, earlier battered the UK. Nine thousand people evacuated their homes in Norfolk, mainly in the Great Yarmouth area, where at least 26 properties have been flooded and a lifeboat station has been washed into the sea. The Environment Agency said 400 homes in the Humber region were affected by flood water. In Kent, more than 500 properties were evacuated in areas including Sandwich, Seasalter, Faversham and the Medway towns. Five beach chalets collapsed in Hemsby, Norfolk, due to the tidal surge. Soldiers have helped the flood prevention effort in Norfolk and Essex. High tides in parts of north Wales battered by storms passed without further major flooding.
BBC reporter, Nomsa Maseko, was a 10-year-old, living in South Africa when Nelson Mandela was freed from prison. After his death she explained just what that meant for her and her family. Mandela led South Africa out of the racist system of apartheid, and into democracy, becoming the country's first black president.
People around the world have paid tribute to Nelson Mandela after he died aged 95. He is seen as one of history's greatest leaders and people from all walks of life have described how he inspired them. David Beckham said: "We have lost a true gentleman and a courageous human being" and Usain Bolt called him "one of the greatest human beings ever".
Crowds of South Africans have spent the night paying tribute to the life of Nelson Mandela, who died on Thursday, aged 95. People have been gathering outside his former home in Soweto, where they've been remembering his legacy by lighting candles, dancing and singing. Meanwhile, South African President, Jacob Zuma, has announced a state funeral will be held for him on Sunday 15 December. A minute's applause in honour of Mandela, will be held before kick-off at Premier League and other football matches on Saturday. Mandela spent 27 years in jail before becoming South Africa's first black president in 1994.
A clean up operation is continuing after the worst storm surge in 60 years hit parts of the east coast of England on Thursday.These houses on the Norfolk coast were left hanging over the cliff after huge waves crashed in to them. The Environment Agency says 1,400 properties have been flooded and thousands of people had to leave their homes. More than 10 flood warnings around the Anglia area are still in place.
Flights in and out of many airports across the UK and Ireland are being delayed because of an air traffic control fault. Britain's busiest airport, Heathrow has been affected as well as Stansted, Cardiff, and Glasgow airports. The problem has been caused by a glitch with computers switching between their night and daytime modes. Thousands of passengers have been left stranded in airports. It's thought the problem will carry on through Saturday afternoon.
People in South Africa are holding a day of "prayer and reflection" for former leader Nelson Mandela. South African President, Jacob Zuma, encouraged people to go to places of worship on Sunday to remember their former President. World leaders including David Cameron and Barack Obama, will attend a national memorial service on Tuesday in the Johannesburg football stadium. Prince Charles has confirmed that he will travel to South Africa to represent the Queen at the state funeral for Nelson Mandela on Sunday 15 December. Since Mandela's death was announced on Thursday, crowds of people have been gathering outside the houses where he lived, lighting candles, praying, singing and dancing in celebration of his life.
Prince Harry will no longer race to the South Pole because of safety concerns. The Prince had started off on a trek with a team of injured British service men and women, racing against groups from the US and Canada. But the charity Walking with the Wounded, who the Prince is raising money for, decided conditions are too harsh to compete. They'll now continue as one big group on the final leg of the challenge on Sunday.
Members of the UK government are to stop work and pay tribute to Nelson Mandela at the Houses of Parliament today. They've said honouring the former South African president, who died on Thursday, would be their "principal occupation" of the day. Another event will take place later in the week at Westminster Hall, where Mr Mandela spoke to parliament in 1996. More than 60 world leaders have said they will attend his memorial service or state funeral. Prime Minister David Cameron will represent the UK and join other world leaders at the service on Tuesday at the Soweto stadium in Johannesburg. The stadium was the venue for the closing ceremony of the World Cup in 2010 - Mr Mandela's last public appearance. Prince Charles has confirmed that he will travel to South Africa to represent the Queen at the state funeral for Nelson Mandela on Sunday 15 December. Yesterday, people in South Africa held a day of "prayer and reflection". South African President, Jacob Zuma, encouraged people to go to places of worship on Sunday to remember their former President. Since Mandela's death was announced on Thursday, crowds of people have been gathering outside the houses where he lived, lighting candles, praying, singing and dancing in celebration of his life.
The Northumberland National Park and Kielder Forest have jointly become the largest Dark Sky Park in Europe. It means they're now able to control levels of light pollution and make sure the views of the night sky are kept clear. Nocturnal animals living in the park will also benefit because it means conditions are closer to their natural habitat. The area will now be called the Northumberland Dark Sky Park. The area becomes only the second Dark Sky Park in Britain.
Thai Prime Minister, Yingluck Shinawatra, has stopped the country's parliament and called an election, after mass protests in the capital, Bangkok. It happened after members of parliament from the opposition party resigned on Sunday, and protesters marched again on Government head quarters. Ms Yingluck was elected leader in 2011 but the protesters say her government is controlled by her brother, Thaksin Shinawatra, who was previously removed from power. Early on Monday, as protesters set off for Government House, Ms Yingluck announced on television that she would call an election. "At this stage, when there are many people opposed to the government from many groups, the best way is to give back the power to the Thai people and hold an election," she said. "So the Thai people will decide." Thai government officials say the election will be held on 2 February. The BBC's Jonathan Head, in Bangkok, says the election call is still unlikely to satisfy many of the protesters, who say the entire voting system needs to be changed, and that Ms Yingluck and her family must leave the country. Anti-government protesters, who have been calling for her government to be replaced with an unelected "People's Council", say the rallies will continue. Tens of thousands of protesters are out on the streets of Bangkok, marching towards Government House from several different directions. More than 60 schools in Bangkok have closed, AP news agency reports. There have been no reports so far of violence in Monday's protests. However, last week's protests turned violent, and five people died.
Xbox One owners are being warned about an internet prank message that could ruin their consoles. Microsoft say some users have received fake messages falsely claiming to give gamers a way of enabling their machines to play games from the Xbox 360. But rather than making that happen they say the message actually puts consoles into endless start-up mode. The company say following the false advice could "brick" your console, making it completely un-useable.
An incredibly rare, 150 million year old dinosaur skeleton has been sold at an auction in West Sussex. The full-size and almost complete Diplodocus has been nicknamed Misty. The 17 meter dinosaur skeleton was discovered in Wyoming, America. It's one of the largest reconstructions of the prehistoric creatures ever found. Whoever bought Misty will need a lot of space to keep the massive skeleton!
Cat Carter is an aid worker for Save the Children, helping people in the Philippines affected by Typhoon Haiyan. She shared her diary with Newsround. I have an hour to pack my emergency kit before leaving the UK. I take a tent, sleeping mat, mosquito net, first aid kit and clean clothes. I also take some aquatabs which make water safe to drink, and a satellite phone because the mobile networks in Tacloban are down. I call my family and friends and cancel plans to see them. They're used to me leaving at short notice but I always feel terrible. It's a long journey to Tacloban. I fly via Dubai, Manila and Cebu before boarding a small plane into Tacloban. The airport in Tacloban is badly damaged and there's no electricity in the city. There's a mass of people at the airport hoping to get on a plane out of Tacloban. One mother tells me: "We cannot survive in Tacloban. There is no food, no water, no medicine." Everywhere I look I see broken buildings, piles of rubbish and even dead bodies in the streets. It's an aid worker's nightmare. I don't even know where to begin. We're facing a massive challenge here.
Two people have died in an accident at the stadium where the 2014 World Cup opening ceremony is due to be held. Authorities in Sao Paulo, Brazil say a crane collapsed, crushing one of the stands at the Arena Corinthians. The arena was due to be completed at the end of December to meet a Fifa deadline. Brazil has admitted it is struggling to have all 12 venues ready. Reports in local media say there was a big crash as the structure collapsed, making construction workers dash. But most of the workers were said to be away during their lunch breaks. Brazilian police say at least two people were killed and a number injured in Wednesday's accident. Corinthians, the club that will move into the new stadium, said in a short statement that it "deeply regrets the accident". Fifa boss Sepp Blatter said he was "deeply saddened by the tragic deaths". Fifa Secretary General Jerome Valcke said: "Extremely shocked by the news from Sao Paulo. Our thoughts are with the families of the victims of this accident." This is the third accident that caused deaths in World Cup stadiums in Brazil, with two other construction workers killed over the past two years.
It's being called the comet of the century but will we actually get to see it? It was expected that Comet Ison could provide one of the most fantastic light shows ever next month on its journey past Earth. But now there's worries it might not survive temperatures of more than 2,000C as it passes the Sun. Astronomers monitoring Ison say they should know in the next 24 hours if the comet survives its brush with our star. Prof Tim O'Brien, associate director of the UK's Jodrell Bank Observatory, said: "It's like throwing a snowball into fire. It's going to be tough for it to survive." "But luckily, it's a big object and it moves fast, so it won't spend too much time close to the Sun. There is a lot of uncertainty."
There could be stricter rules on cigarette packaging to stop young people smoking in England. At the moment cigarette companies can put their own logos on packets but campaigners want plain packaging or ones with pictures of the harmful effects of smoking on the front. The UK government had put plans for unbranded packets on hold. Now it says if a review proves it reduces the number of smokers, plain packaging could become law by 2015. But the opposition Labour party says that "immediate action" is needed, "not another review". The study will look at whether or not plain packaging has made a difference in Australia, where plain dark green packets for all cigarettes have been the law since January 2011. In a 2011 debate in the Australian parliament, Labor Party MP Mike Symon explained: "Research shows that adults and adolescents in scientifically controlled studies perceive cigarettes in plain packs to be less appealing, less palatable, less satisfying and of lower quality compared to cigarettes in current packaging." Cancer Research UK said the move would "save thousands of lives": "Stopping cigarettes being marketed to children as a glamorous and desirable accessory is one of the greatest gifts we can give the next generation." The Scottish government has said it is "still committed" to introducing standardised packaging, while New Zealand is also considering the move.
Typhoon Haiyan was one of the most powerful storms to ever hit land and thousands of people have been affected. In part 2 of Leah's diary she discovers how children are continuing with their education despite their classrooms being destroyed, and she meets a family who say they are thankful to be alive. "Heading to the small town of Somosa I was able to talk to children about their experiences. The journey to get there took three hours from Cebu City. It gave me another insight into the destruction brought by Typhoon Haiyan. Along the way I saw people clearing away the mess and rescue workers were fixing power lines to get communication up and running again. I arrived at one school that was acting as a temporary shelter for the local community. The morning the typhoon struck head teacher Miss Romin helped look after people who didn't have anywhere to go. Even though class rooms were completely destroyed tents are now in place so lessons can continue. During these lessons children are encouraged to talk about what happened to them, they also draw pictures and charity workers believe this will help them come to terms with what they've been through. While I was here I met 8 year-old Kit who lives just around corner from the school. His family showed me around their home, which is now just piles of wood and their scattered belongings. Kit's mum was upset by what happened but they are thankful everyone in their family is safe and unharmed. They now live in a new house not far from the school and they are slowly getting back on track. Many of the children I've spoken to have seen things most of us can't imagine and their lives have been changed forever but the one thing I've been struck by is how strong the children have been. And as I headed back to the UK I left with a real sense of hope for the Philippines and its people." Leah.
A generation of Syrian children is becoming a casualty of the civil war, according to the United Nations Refugee agency. The organisation claims that over a million are now refugees, calling the figure "a shameful milestone of the conflict". It says many more are psychologically traumatised, missing school and forced into work. Conditions in huge refugee camps such as the Zaatari camp in Jordan are hard. Umra Afad, 36, fled to Zaatari from the suburbs of Damascus with their six children seven months ago. She said: "We don't have many rights here, but we have to live like this, because we don't have anywhere else to go. The only reason we keep living in this camp is our children. "
The Anglican Church of Ireland will for the first time consecrate a woman to serve as one of its bishops. The Rev Pat Storey, a rector at St Augustine's in Londonderry, was elected as the Bishop of Meath and Kildare in the Republic of Ireland. Mrs Storey will become the first woman bishop to be appointed by any of the four Anglican Churches in the British Isles. The Church of Ireland cleared the way for women priests and bishops in 1991. There are nearly 30 active Anglican women bishops in the world but the church in each country has the right to decide if it wants women to be bishops. The Anglican churches in Wales and Scotland have the power to appoint woman bishops but have not yet done so. It's 20 years since the Church of England allowed women to become priests but at the moment they can't be bishops. The church in England voted against changes in November 2012 but is expected to discuss the issue again next year.
Soap stars have revealed a brand new Coronation Street - 2 miles away from the old one. At the moment Coronation Street is recorded on a fake street built in 1982 behind ITV's old studios in Manchester. ITV is leaving the old studios so a new Coronation Street has been built at Media City UK - right next door to Newsround. It's taken two-and-a-half years to rebuild the famous street and it's almost identical. The biggest difference is that the new street is bigger to look more realistic. Actress Jane Danson, who plays Leanne, said: "We can have two cars going down the street, which we couldn't before." Corrie boss Kieran Roberts said: "We've added an extra window here and there, which makes the buildings a little bit more realistic." The street will need a few tweaks before it appears on TV. The famous cobbles will be dug up and re-laid because when it rains the puddles get too deep. The first scenes will be recorded at Media City UK in spring 2014. ITV said it will let the public visit the old set for at least six months after the last scenes are recorded there.
Did somebody famous switch on the Christmas lights in your town? People in the town of Frome in Somerset had a real treat this year when Formula One star Jenson Button showed up to push the button. Jenson grew up in Frome and also went to school there - and took the opportunity to show off his driving skills as people cheered.
Soil from World War 1 battlefields in Belgium will be laid at a new memorial garden in London on Saturday. The soil was collected by British and Belgian schoolchildren and put into sandbags. It arrived on a ship up the River Thames on Friday and was taken through London by a military procession on Saturday morning. The soil will be a feature of a new remembrance garden, marking 100 years since the start of World War 1 in 1914.
Rescue teams are at the scene of a serious helicopter crash in Glasgow. Late on Friday night a police helicopter crashed into the roof of a packed pub in the city centre. Three people were in the helicopter - two police officers and a pilot. It's thought more than a hundred people were in the pub at the time watching a band perform. 32 people have been taken to hospital. Police Scotland have confirmed at least one person has died but it's feared that number will rise. Scotland's First Minister Alex Salmond said: "This is a black day for Glasgow and for Scotland." It didn't take long for emergency crews to arrive but their work could take a long time. An investigation will try and work out how this tragedy could have happened.
Riot police in Thailand have been trying to stop protesters forcing their way into the prime minister's office and the police headquarters. They're trying to protect important buildings in the capital city Bangkok from being taken over. The protesters are angry with how the Prime Minister is running the country. Yesterday two people were killed and many were injured when groups supporting the government clashed with protestors. The protests have been going on for eight days.
A service of prayers for those affected by the helicopter crash was held at Glasgow's Church of Scotland Cathedral on Sunday morning. Late on Friday night a police helicopter crashed into the roof of a packed pub in the city centre. It's thought more than a hundred people were in the pub at the time watching a band perform. 32 people were taken to hospital and 14 were still being treated for their injuries on Sunday. It's known that eight people died including all three people in the helicopter. On Saturday Scotland's First Minister Alex Salmond said: "This is a black day for Glasgow and for Scotland." An investigation will try and work out how this tragedy could have happened.
Hundreds of kids say they're losing out on sleep because they're worrying about things like exams, bullying or family problems, according to a survey. More than half said they felt stressed at least once a week. Many said they struggle to get to sleep, miss meals or stop seeing friends because of how they feel. Children were most likely to worry about tests and exams (57%), followed by family problems - like their parents splitting up - (31%) and being bullied at school or a club (30%). The research was carried out for the Big Lottery Fund, that donates to hundreds of charities in the UK. The Big Lottery Fund has just launched HeadStart which is a scheme to help children who need help with stress and worry. The survey was carried out by YouGov - a research company, for the Big Lottery Fund. 715 British children aged 10 to 14 took part in the survey.
Morrisons is the first UK supermarket to ban the sale of high caffeine energy drinks to under 16s. The ban is in response to health fears over kids having too much caffeine. Red Bull, Monster and Relentless are examples of the brands that would be off-limits to anyone 16 or under, as they contain more than 150mg of caffeine per litre. Morrisons will trial the ban in certain stores first with a plan to roll it out more widely across the UK. In Scotland, selling and advertising high-caffeine drinks in schools is already banned, but kids there can still buy the drinks in shops. In the past a number of schools around the UK have also banned the drinks. A spokeswoman for Morrisons said: "We understand the concern over the potential impact of high-caffeine energy drinks on young people and are taking steps to address this." Morrisons stores in Glasgow, Dorset, Leeds, Cheshire, Staffordshire and Suffolk will trial the ban, and staff will ask for proof of age.
Rebecca Adlington has admitted on I'm A Celebrity... Get Me Out of Here! that she feels pressure over how she looks. During a debate on the ITV show with other contestants about body image, the double Olympic gold medallist said she's 'insecure' over how she looks. She said: "I was an athlete, I wasn't trying to be a model, but pretty much every single week on Twitter I get somebody commenting on the way I look." "It's making young people like me very, very insecure." Last year, a group of MPs released a report that said more than half of the British public has a negative body image. Girls as young as five now worry about how they look, the MPs' report said, and it was images in the media of unrealistic bodies that were largely to blame. We asked whether you feel there is too much pressure to look a certain way. You can read a selection of your comments below.
People in the eastern European country of Latvia have begun three days of national mourning for the victims of a supermarket roof collapse. Fifty-two people died when the roof of Maxima supermarket in capital city, Riga, fell down on Thursday. Rescuers have been working day and night to search for any survivors who might be trapped in the rubble. Many people have left flowers and candles outside the site. Officials say the collapse may have been caused by soil on the building's roof, which was being used to create a rooftop garden.
Designer clothes donated by David and Victoria Beckham to raise money for the Philippines have sold out at a British Red Cross charity shop in London. The Beckhams donated 20 boxes of clothes, including shoes by Jimmy Choo and suits by Dolce & Gabbana. Prices ranged from £25 for ties and belts to £250 for jackets. Hundreds of shoppers queued up at the Chelsea store on Friday for a chance to get their hands on some Beckham belongings. The charity said: "One of David's suits will buy 14 tarpaulins. It really can make a difference to people in the Philippines." The British public and the government have donated over £100 million so far to survivors of Typhoon Haiyan. Victoria Beckham said: "Everyone has something in their closet they were holding on to. "Dig them out, bag them up, drop them off and give someone else the chance to buy them, raising much-needed funds for the Red Cross aid effort." Customers at British Red Cross shops can specifically request their donations be used to aid the victims of Typhoon Haiyan as part of the charity's Shop Drop for the Philippines campaign.
The UK is sending six new flights of aid to the Philippines this week to help survivors of Typhoon Haiyan. The planes will be carrying more than 1,400 tents and other supplies - including 22,000 plastic sheets, 23,000 tarpaulins, 3,000 cooking sets and 17,000 blankets. Four cities are also be given a total of £5 million, taking the total amount of UK government aid to £55 million. More than 5,000 people have died in the typhoon and many are still missing. The UK government's International Development Secretary, Justine Greening, is visiting the Philippines. She called the devastation "shocking". She said: "There is the beginning of people clearing debris and the roads are now clear. But there's a huge amount left to do."
More than 11,000 children have died in the Syrian war since it started in March 2011, according to a new report. The Oxford Research Group says the conflict has had a "catastrophic effect" on kids in the country. It says children are being targeted in the war - with most killed by bombs or shells in their own neighbourhoods. The report calls on fighters to stop targeting ordinary people and places such as schools and hospitals.
Iran has reached an important deal with other world powers over its nuclear activities. The Middle Eastern country has agreed to put a stop to some of its nuclear work for the time being. In return, some of the international restrictions - on how they trade and are allowed to deal with other countries - are being relaxed. Leaders from six countries, including the US and UK, were locked in talks with Iran for four days in Switzerland. Western countries are worried that Iran is making nuclear weapons, although Iran has repeatedly said it's not. Iran says its nuclear work is being done for their power stations. It's thought the agreement includes Iran cutting their stores of uranium (the chemical used in nuclear activity) and allowing more access to international inspectors. US President Barack Obama welcomed the deal, saying it "cut off Iran's most likely paths to a [nuclear] bomb".
500 tonnes of aid from the United Kingdom has arrived in the Philippines to help people affected by Typhoon Haiyan. It was carried aboard the enormous aircraft carrier HMS Illustrious. The ship had been looking for pirates off the coast of Somalia but was sent to the Philippines after the typhoon struck. It is carrying emergency packs including packs of food, water, tools and plastic sheeting. The crew will use helicopters to deliver aid to people who are stuck in isolated areas where aid has not yet arrived.
The world record for the most Christmas lights on a house has been broken. The Richards family in Australia have put 502,165 Christmas lights around their home. The family first held the world record in 2011 after putting up 331,038 lights, but a family in New York soon beat them. David Richards said he had started working on his latest display in October. "I took a week off... and then have worked every weekend since," Mr Richards said. The family say they will open the display to visitors in the coming weeks, to raise money for a children's charity.
Prince Harry and his expedition have been snowed in at their base camp after heavy snow and strong winds. The Prince is set to begin a 200 mile trek to the South Pole and arrived in Antarctica on Friday. He was supposed to take part in skiing exercises to help him get used to the chilly conditions but the bad weather has made training impossible. A spokeswoman for Walking With The Wounded told Newsround that everybody at the camp is safe and well. The epic expedition is still expected to begin on 30 November as planned. During the trip Prince Harry will have to walk about nine miles a day and face temperatures of -45C. The team hopes to reach the South Pole by December 16.
The final resting place of King Richard III should be decided in the high court later today. His remains were found under a car park in Leicester last year. He was due to be re-buried at the city's cathedral, but a group of the King's descendants are fighting this decision. They believe it was his wish to be buried in York, where he was from, instead. Who was Richard III? • Richard III was the last Yorkist King of England, this means he was the last member of the House of York family to be made king. • Richard had one of the shortest reigns in British history - just over 2 years, and he was the last English king to die in battle. • He was killed at the Battle of Bosworth in 1485, which led to the end of the War of the Roses. This was fighting between the houses of Lancaster and York that lasted 30 years! • Richard III has been painted as a villain. It's said he killed his two nephews so he could take the throne and William Shakespeare wrote a play about him but some historians say this was propaganda and might have been unfair.
Around 30,000 children in the Philippines are to be vaccinated to help stop the spread of diseases after typhoon Haiyan. Many families in Tacloban city lost their homes when the typhoon struck. They are now having to live in cramped and dirty conditions and there are worries that these conditions could make them ill. The aim is to immunise all under-fives in the area to help protect them against measles and polio. Tarik Jasarevic, spokesperson for the World Health Organization's emergency relief team said: "Measles is a viral infection that spreads very very fast. "When you have an over crowded setting, there is a risk of infection. "Therefore, it is very important we prevent this before it happens." The aim is to immunise all under-fives in Tacloban City. The children will be given polio drops and measles injections. The children will also be checked for malnutrition and given vitamin A drops to help boost their immune systems.
Gary Barlow is an international star who travels all over the world but he's admitted that he's afraid of flying. The singer is about to tackle his fear head on and has signed up for a course to help him overcome his phobia. Other stars have had to confront their fears too: Niall Horan suffered from claustrophobia as did Justin Bieber. And both Pirates of the Caribbean star Johnny Depp and Harry Potter's Daniel Radcliffe have confessed to being frightened of clowns! We asked you what fears you've faced and how you've overcome them.
The Prime Minister says he wants to restrict access to benefits to some people who come to live in the UK from other countries. From next year new rules will make it easier for people to come from Romania and Bulgaria to come to the UK. David Cameron says the public is worried about people coming to Britain without jobs and claiming unemployment benefit. He wants to stop people getting unemployment benefit for the first three months in the country but critics say new rules might not be possible because of European laws. The Liberal Democrats support the plans but Labour says Mr Cameron is copying their policies. The UK Independence Party say the plans don't go far enough. MigrationWatch UK has said it expects 50,000 people to come from Bulgaria and Romania to the UK in each of the next five years but the Bulgarian ambassador has said he believes the figure will be much lower - predicting levels of about 8,000. Proposed changes: New migrants will not get out-of-work benefits for the first three months. Payments will be stopped after six months unless the claimant has a "genuine" chance of a job. The "habitual residency test" to determine eligibility for benefits will be tightened up. An earnings threshold will be introduced. New migrants will not be able to claim housing benefit immediately. Those not seeking work will be removed and will not able to return for 12 months. Fines for employers not paying the minimum wage will go up.
Cat Carter is an aid worker for Save the Children, helping people in the Philippines affected by Typhoon Haiyan. She shared her diary with Newsround. Today is the first really good day. After working through the night to get everything ready, the aid is ready to be distributed. It's not a simple process. Giving out aid has to be carefully managed to prevent a descent into chaos. You must have enough supplies for all the vulnerable people in the area, and people need to know where and when they must go to collect aid. We register people so we know how many people are in their family and what their situation is. This will determine how much aid they get, and what type. It's a complex operation but when it goes well it's an impressive sight. The whole team breathes a sigh of relief when the first distribution goes without a hitch. Tonight we will have our instant noodles as usual but I am going to celebrate the distribution and have a biscuit. There's so little food here that even this tiny bit of sugar is a big treat.
"Selfie" has been named as word of the year by Oxford Dictionaries. The editors said the word is now widely used to describe a self-portrait photograph. The Oxford Dictionaries define a selfie as "a photograph that one has taken of oneself, typically with a smartphone". The word has been traced back to 2002 when it was used in an Australian online forum, according to Oxford Dictionaries.
Nasa's Maven mission has set off on its ten month journey to Mars. The orbiter was launched from Florida's Cape Canaveral Air Force Station on Monday. The Maven mission aims to find out whether the dusty Red Planet may have once looked a lot more like Earth. The Maven orbiter will study the planet's high atmosphere, to try to find out why most of its air has disappeared. The distance of Maven's orbit around the planet will vary and it will do five "deep dips", swooping into the Martian atmosphere to collect samples. It will measure how quickly air molecules are being lost from the planet's atmosphere, to try to work out how and why the atmosphere's changed in the billions of years since the planet was warmer and wetter than it is today. Mars's atmosphere is now extremely thin and is mostly made up of carbon dioxide. Scientists think that Mars probably lost most of its atmosphere from being battered by the Solar wind - the powerful blast of energetic particles from the Sun. They think that because Mars doesn't have a protective magnetic field as the Earth does, it couldn't keep hold of its atmosphere. Once Maven has completed its original mission, it will have enough fuel on board to keep it running for years, relaying information back to Earth from the Mars rovers like Curiosity.
A powerful cyclone has caused devastation on the island of Sardinia, just off the coast of Italy. Waters up to 3m deep swept through the city of Olbia, after a month's worth of rain fell in just over an hour. Cars were swept away and bridges collapsed. Eighteen people are known to have died and more are missing. The Italian government has declared a state of emergency, with the Prime Minister Enrico Letta calling it a "national tragedy". The government promised 20 million euros (£16.8m) immediately for emergency relief efforts, with soldiers from the country's army helping. "We are focusing on essential operations: saving human lives, assisting displaced people and clearing road access," he said after an emergency meeting on Tuesday.
Plans to reorganise the army could be rejected today because some MPs disagree with the proposals. The government wants to reduce the number of regular soldiers in the army by 20,000. It wants to employ an extra 11,000 reservists instead. Reservists are soldiers who are trained but are only in the army part-time. More than 20 MPs oppose the plans but Defence Secretary Philip Hammond says delaying the plan could damage Britain's military capability.
How fast can you run? A new report says kids today can't run as fast as their parents could when they were young. Researchers found that on average it takes children today 90 seconds longer to run a mile than kids 30 years ago. They looked at 46 years worth of information involving more than 25 million children. Dr Grant Tomkinson from the University of South Australia's School of Health Sciences said the drop in speed is linked to obesity. Official advice says that young people should do at least an hour of physical activity like running in the playground every day. It can be done in small chunks rather than one session. Christopher Allen of the British Heart Foundation said: "By encouraging children to get active, we can help protect their hearts as they grow up."
Cat Carter is an aid worker for Save the Children, helping people in the Philippines affected by Typhoon Haiyan. She shared her diary with Newsround. Save the Children, the UK Government and the Australian Government teamed up to bring some British doctors to Tacloban. They're working in a clinic close to Tacloban airport. They see around 100 patients a day. People are only sent there when it's an urgent and severe problem.The doctors are living in tiny tents and sharing a single tent shower. The tents get extremely hot and the doctors are living on packet meals and instant coffee. It's a world away from what they are used to, but they are passionate about helping the people here. I met an inspiring young teenager named Razan. He volunteers in the clinic, translating for the doctors, sitting with patients and bringing the doctors water and snacks. He's an inspiration, and we have quickly become friends.
Hull has been named the UK's next City of Culture, beating Leicester, Dundee and Swansea Bay to the title. It will become City of Culture in 2017, taking over from Derry-Londonderry in Northern Ireland. Hull is known for its enormous aquarium The Deep and its two super league rugby teams. The famous Humber Bridge is also nearby. The government chooses a new destination every four years to help tourism and the economy. Hull council leader Stephen Brady said winning "will give Hull a platform to tell the world what this great city has to offer." The city is planning a stadium sound and light concert with 500 dancers for 2017.
There's a lot of excitement in Hull today after it was named the UK's next City of Culture. As part of their bid to win the people of Hull made a video saying what they loved about Hull.
A dog walker who spotted bank notes floating in a waterway in Lincolnshire immediately contacted the police. Officers who attended the scene of the floating money believed there to be around £60,000. They say that it was likely to have come from a crime. A large number of the notes were damaged but "a good quantity" appeared to be in reasonable condition. The money will remain with police until an investigation is complete. Det Con Steve Hull, of Spalding police, said: "It isn't every day that an amount of money like this is found. "Somebody must have information that will help trace the lawful owner."
After the typhoon that swept through the Philippines earlier this month, people there are having to work hard to survive in the aftermath. Many victims have come up with inventive ways of getting by in the devastated city of Tacloban. Aid is starting to reach some of the most remote areas of the country but for some, it's not soon enough. Ayshah has been looking at five ways people are making do with what was left.
The mystery of the rotating Egyptian statue which moves by itself has been solved. Staff at Manchester Museum were astonished when they caught the statue moving on video. The statue dates back to 1,800 BC. An investigation found that traffic outside and footsteps of museum visitors caused the ancient statue to rotate inside its glass case. The investigation was carried out for a new ITV series called Mystery Map. Mr Gosling, of 24 Acoustics engineering noise consultancy, said: "There's a lump at the bottom which makes it more susceptible to vibrations".
Daniel Radcliffe says celebrities who share every detail of their lives on the internet should not expect people to respect their privacy. The 24-year-old Harry Potter star told Sky News how he avoids social media and turning up at 'celebrity' events. "I don't have Twitter and I don't have Facebook," Daniel told Sky News. "If you tell everybody what you're doing moment to moment and then claim you want a private life, then no one is going to take that request seriously." The actor, who was cast as Harry Potter when he was 11, added: "Don't, for instance, go to premieres that aren't for a film you're in."
A "dull" calendar of red telephone boxes around Wales has failed to sell a single copy! The "Fast Disappearing Red Telephone Boxes of Wales 2014" calendar features phone boxes in areas including Monmouth and Llanberis in Gwynedd. It was created by Kevin Beresford who was responsible for a calendar of Roundabouts which was a surprise hit in 2012. Kevin said: "Are we not all fed up with David Beckham, Lady Ga-Ga, One Direction and dare I say Cliff Richard?" It appears not. Kevin admitted: "Not even the most patriotic Welsh person wants to buy a copy."
The "most waterproof material ever" has been created by engineers in the US. Lotus leaves were thought to be one of the most splash-proof materials in nature because water bounces off them quickly. But engineers have made a new material with tiny ridges that repels water up to 40% faster. To make material waterproof you have to stop water sticking to it and the team found ridged materials make water drops break up and bounce away faster. Similar ridges are found in nature on the wings of the Morpho butterfly and the veins of nasturtium leaves. The new "super-hydrophobic" material could be used to keep clothes, tents and even planes dry.
The Prince of Wales wants to get more young people volunteering. Prince Charles' new Step Up To Serve plan aims to get 50% of the UK's young people involved in volunteering by 2020. Volunteering means things like helping out at local clubs, community centres and activity groups, in your spare time. At the moment fewer than 30% of 10 to 20-year-olds volunteer, according to research by Demos. Step Up 2 Serve will work with groups like the Scouts and the National Citizen Service to give young people more opportunities to volunteer in their community.
A 180-tonne Dreamlifter aircraft has accidentally landed at the wrong airport in America, and is struggling to take off again.The plane was due to land at the McConnell Air Force Base in Wichita, but landed at an airport nine miles north instead. In order to take off again, the Dreamlifter needs a runway of 2.8 kilometres long, but the runway at the Colonel James Jabara airport is only 1.8 kilometres long. The Dreamlifter is a modified 747-400 passenger aeroplane, which can carry more cargo than any aeroplane in the world. It is used to transport aeroplane parts around the world.
The UK's money troubles could be starting to improve, according to the governor of the Bank Of England. Mark Carney says the the recovery has "taken hold" and that unemployment will fall sooner than expected. The Bank of England make predictions about the strength of the economy based on how much money they think people will spend. People, shops and other businesses have been struggling ever since the start of the financial crisis in 2008, when some major banks went bust. Chancellor George Osborne said the news was proof the government's plans were working but Labour say more needs to be done to help ordinary people.
Prime Minister David Cameron says more needs to be done to get people from less wealthy backgrounds into top jobs. He told reporters on a flight to India that there was "not as much social mobility as there needs to be." Many people agree that people from poorer backgrounds and ethnic minorities struggle to get into the best jobs in Britain. "Opening the door and saying 'we are in favour of equality of opportunity', that's not enough," he said. You can find out more about this by watching Leah's report.
Thousands of ocean species could be wiped because of rising acid levels in sea water, scientists have warned. A major research project, by 500 of the world's leading acidification experts, suggests our oceans are souring at a faster rate than any time in the last 300 million years. They blame the amount of carbon monoxide produced by humans and say that 30 per cent of ocean life, including coral and sea-snails, may not survive beyond the year 2100. The scientists will present their findings at global climate talks in Poland next week. French researcher Professor Jean-Pierre Gattuso, said: "My colleagues have not found in the geological record, rates of change that are faster than the ones we see today." "In the Southern Ocean, we already see corrosion of pteropods which are like sea snails, in the ocean we see corrosion of the shell. "[The snails] are eaten by fish, birds and whales, so if one element is going then there is a cascading impact on the whole food chain." The cold waters of the Arctic and the Antarctic hold more CO2 than the rest of the world. Researchers say that by 2020, ten percent of the Arctic will be too acidic for sea creatures.
Rules banning phones and games consoles during flights have been relaxed by the European Aviation Safety Agency. The EASA's new guidelines say electronic devices can now be used during take-off and landing. Previously using gadgets during take-off and landing was banned for safety reasons. All gadgets must still be switched to 'flight mode' if used on a plane as mobile transmissions could interfere with flight equipment. So you'll be able to listen to music or play games, but you still won't be allowed to call or text on a plane. The new rules will apply to flights operated by airlines in Europe. Always ask the cabin crew if you aren't sure of the rules on your flight.
Britain is giving an extra £30 million to help people in the Philippines after Typhoon Haiyan destroyed huge areas of the islands. Since it happened the Disasters Emergency Committee (DEC), which brings together 14 major UK charities, has been appealing for funds to send over there. It brings the total donated by the UK to around £50 million. Prime Minister David Cameron said an aircraft will also be sent to help aid workers get to people in hard to reach areas. The United Nations says around half a million people are still without food and shelter, and that emergency relief will be needed in the country for the next six months.
Good news for X-Factor and Britain's Got Talent fans - the shows will be around for at least another three years. Simon Cowell, who's the boss of the company that makes the shows, has agreed a new deal with ITV. He said: "I am thrilled that we have extended our deal with ITV for Britain's Got Talent and The X Factor," "They have been fantastic partners and we have some exciting new plans to take the shows to the next level." He hasn't said whether he will return to the show as a judge. Both Gary Barlow and Louis Walsh have confirmed this will be their last series working on the show. Simon Cowell quit the UK panel to work on the US version, but audiences numbers there have not been as high as he hoped.Britain's Got Talent will return next year for an eighth series.
He's whizzed around town in his batmobile, he's saved a woman's life and even stopped a robbery - he is Batkid! Miles Scott is five years old and his biggest dream is to be his favourite superhero for day. In real life Miles has been fighting a form of cancer, called leukaemia, since he was just 18 months old. His parents were so proud of him for being so brave they wanted to make one of his dreams come true. With the help of the charity Make A Wish Foundation and thousands of people in San Francisco they managed to make it happen - even the city mayor took part. They helped to turn the town into a pretend Gotham City so Batkid could go about being a hero. Miles thought he was just off out to buy a batman costume, but on the way back he heard a broadcast calling out for help from Batkid. He had to dash off to save a woman who had been tied to cable car tracks, before capturing the Riddler who was trying to rob a bank. And if that wasn't enough he then saved the city from a fake bomb! (All pretend though, don't worry!) Luckily for batkid he could get around in his very own batmobile - a black Lamborghini with Batman stickers on the body. Towards the end of the day San Francisco Mayor Ed Lee gave Miles a key to the city. US President Barack Obama praised the mini-caped crusader in a video from the White House saying: "Way to go, Miles! Way to save Gotham." An estimated 7,000 people turned up to help make Miles' wish come true.
British warship HMS Daring has docked in the Philippines to help people affected by Typhoon Haiyan. The ship has moored two miles off the port in Cebu, one of the areas worst-hit by the disaster. BBC correspondent Alistair Leithead said the warship is preparing to set sail to some of the more remote islands. A Lynx helicopter is set to fly shelter kits, food and medical supplies to places which are hard to get to. They'll also fly out medical crews who will treat people who are injured. Alistair Leithhead said the helicopter crew had been filming and taking photographs of the affected areas and teams are studying them to see what might be needed. He said: "They can take salt water and turn it into fresh water, they're bringing containers to fill up so they can give it out to people rather than delivering huge quantities to people."
Charity workers have called on world leaders to do more to tackle climate change, because they say events like Typhoon Haiyan could be caused by it. The UK Disasters Emergency Committee (DEC), made up of 14 UK charities, argue Typhoon Haiyan is part of a recent pattern of extreme weather. They want world leaders to agree to cut countries' carbon emissions. But scientists say that no single major storm like Haiyan can be linked to man-made climate change with any certainty. The United Nations, a joint committee of governments from across the world, are currently holding climate talks in Warsaw in Poland. The group is discussing ways to get countries to lower the amount of carbon they put into the Earth's atmosphere. A recent report from the UN said human activities are causing a rise in gases that cause global warming. "It is extremely likely that human influence has been the dominant cause of the observed warming since the mid-20th century," the report said. Unless we reduce the amount of greenhouse gases we release, continued the report, there will be further warming. So the DEC has called on the UN to use this meeting to discuss events like Typhoon Haiyan and take action to tackle it.
A series of powerful tornadoes has swept through parts of the United States. Buildings were destroyed and cars have been overturned in the states of Illinois, Indiana and Kentucky. Illinois was the worst hit and entire streets were wiped out in the storms which struck yesterday afternoon. Tornadoes are common in these areas of the US, but these storms are unusually destructive for this time of year. At least five people have died and there are fears that people may still be trapped in the rubble.
Chloe was bullied for years because of the colour of her skin - and she's not alone. Every day lots of children are bullied for many different reasons. Thanks to the help of her family, friends and local community centre, Chloe managed to overcome the bullies. She told Ricky her story to mark the start of anti-bullying week.
Could Mars once have supported life? Nasa's Maven mission aims to find out whether the dusty Red Planet may have once looked a lot more like Earth. The Maven orbiter will study the planet's high atmosphere, to try to find out why most of its air has disappeared over the millennia. The probe will blast off from Florida on Monday evening and is set to arrive at Mars in September 2014. It will spend at least a year circling the planet and gathering samples. The distance of Maven's orbit around the planet will vary and it will do five "deep dips", swooping into the Martian atmosphere to collect samples. It will measure how quickly air molecules are being lost from the planet's atmosphere, to try to work out how and why the atmosphere's changed in the billions of years since the planet was warmer and wetter than it is today. Mars's atmosphere is now extremely thin and is mostly made up of carbon dioxide. Scientists think that Mars probably lost most of its atmosphere from being battered by the Solar wind - the powerful blast of energetic particles from the Sun. They think that because Mars doesn't have a protective magnetic field as the Earth does, it couldn't keep hold of its atmosphere. Once Maven has completed its original mission, it will have enough fuel on board to keep it running for years, relaying information back to Earth from the Mars rovers like Curiosity.
Cat Carter is an aid worker for Save the Children, helping people in the Philippines affected by Typhoon Haiyan. She shared her diary with Newsround. I have to get to the hospital for a meeting so I walk along the coast. It's extremely hot and it feels like I'm walking for hours. I have to climb over uprooted trees avoid fallen telephone lines. At the hospital people are arriving with infected wounds from the typhoon. A doctor tells me that he's seeing more children getting diarrhoea and flu-like symptoms. He says it's because of the dirty conditions they have to live in.
Cat Carter is an aid worker for Save the Children, helping people in the Philippines affected by Typhoon Haiyan. She shared her diary with Newsround. The day starts on a positive note - our trucks full of aid have arrived. It's been a nightmare to get aid to Tacloban. By air was impossible at first. The airport was all but destroyed, the command centre gone, and no lights to light the runway. By land was dangerous. There have been reports of violent looting - people robbing shops and homes. We couldn't risk being attacked until we knew what we were dealing with. Sending a boat would take a long time. We sent our aid in a convoy of trucks over land. The cargo contains water, aquatabs, tarpaulin and hygiene kits. It's nowhere near enough for everybody but it's a start. More aid will arrive on a boat soon. I manage to get on the internet for twenty minutes. I've received a lot of supportive messages for the team out here and I'm suddenly overcome with emotion.
A 180-tonne Dreamlifter aircraft has accidentally landed at the wrong airport in America, and is struggling to take off again.The plane was due to land at the McConnell Air Force Base in Wichita, but landed at an airport nine miles north instead. In order to take off again, the Dreamlifter needs a runway of 2.8 kilometres long, but the runway at the Colonel James Jabara airport is only 1.8 kilometres long. The Dreamlifter is a modified 747-400 passenger aeroplane, which can carry more cargo than any aeroplane in the world. It is used to transport aeroplane parts around the world.
Lady Gaga has unveiled a high-tech 'flying' dress at the launch of her third album in New York earlier this week. Gaga was lifted several metres off the ground by a machine she calls Volantis during a party for her new album Artpop. The battery-powered device propels the wearer into the air and fits the body with a moulded plastic suit. It's not the first time the 27-year-old's clothes have made the news. Back in 2010 Gaga made headlines around the world with her dress made from meat.
World War One changed how we live today and many families still remember the experiences of their relatives during that time. More than one million men and women from Britain and the Commonwealth died during the the fighting that took place between 1914 to 1918. Every place in the country and every family was affected by the war.
If you've ever dreamed of looking like a Disney princess, these beautiful dresses might be right up your street. Famous fashion designers have created a collection of ten elegant gowns based on Disney's best-known princesses. Designer Oscar de la Renta designed a fabulous frock inspired by Snow White, while Valentino made one based on Belle from Beauty and the Beast. The dresses will be auctioned today to help Great Ormond Street Hospital and could fetch about £4,000 each.
People in the Philippines are still waiting for aid to arrive six days since Typhoon Haiyan. Aid agencies are struggling to get supplies to the thousands of people left without food, water and shelter. The United Nations say 673,000 people can't return to their homes after the typhoon. However on Tuesday the Philippine President Benigno Aquino said fewer people had died in the storm than originally thought. He told news channel CNN that about 2,500 people are likely to have died, rather than 10,000 as some officials reported. BBC reporter Jon Donnison spoke to people in the city of Tacloban and found out what life is like there after the typhoon.
A massive UK charity appeal to help typhoon survivors in the Philippines has raised £13m in its first 24 hours. The Disasters Emergency Committee (DEC) which brings together 14 major UK charities launched its appeal on Tuesday. It said the response had been "overwhelming". Typhoon Haiyan hit the Philippines on Friday, It's estimated that more than 2,000 people have been killed by it. The money has been raised from online, text and phone donations. DEC chief executive Saleh Saeed said most of the money would be used to help emergency teams provide food, water and shelter for the people that are 'getting desperate'. He said: "It's vital that we continue to respond to their needs, and that the UK public continues to give." "The initial public response has been overwhelming - people have given so generously in such a short space of time. "They have obviously been moved by the heart-breaking stories coming out of the Philippines of those struggling to survive." Aid is slowly beginning to arrive in the worst-affected regions. In Tacloban a city which has been devastated by the typhoon, BBC reporter Jonathan Head said he had seen signs of organised aid getting through. US military planes have been arriving at Tacloban's ruined airport, delivering World Food Programme supplies. These are then being taken to outlying regions by helicopter. A French-Belgian field hospital has also been set up.
A painting by artist Francis Bacon has become the most expensive artwork ever sold at auction. The painting of Francis' friend Lucian Freud fetched around £89million at an auction in New York. The masterpiece, named Three Studies of Lucian Freud, is considered one of Francis Bacon's greatest works. It was sold after bidding war that lasted six minutes. The price eclipsed the £74million paid for a painting called The Scream last year.
Nasa has revealed a spectacular new photograph of the planet Saturn, taken by the Cassini spacecraft. The Cassini craft has been orbiting Saturn and sending information back to Earth since 2004. The giant photo is made up of 141 smaller pictures taken on 19 July while Saturn was eclipsing the Sun. Back in July, Nasa announced that the photo was being taken so that we could all smile and wave for the camera. But you'll have a hard time spotting yourself! Earth is so far away from the Cassini orbiter that it appears as a tiny white/blue dot just to the bottom-right of Saturn and above the word 'tech' in this picture.
This glamorous gemstone has become the most expensive ever after selling at auction for a whopping £51 million! The Pink Star is described as a flawless oval-cut pink diamond set in a ring. It went on sale in Switzerland on Wednesday and sold for a record breaking amount. The winner of the auction said he had bought it on behalf of an anonymous buyer.
This is the moment a 900kg satellite returned to Earth in a ball of flames. The Gravity field and steady-state Ocean Circulation Explorer satellite - or GOCE for short - had come to the end of its life.When satellites orbiting the Earth run out of fuel they can fall back to the planet and usual get destroyed as they enter our atmosphere. The photo was taken by Bill Chater in the Falkland Islands on 11 November. GOCE was launched in 2009 to accurately map Earth's gravity.
A superhero fan has created a fully road legal replica of the Batmobile, complete with flamethrower, smoke machine and hydraulic suspension. The car is based on the caped crusader's ride in the 1992 film Batman Returns and is capable of going from 0-60mph in 3.7 seconds. It will go on sale at the end of the month and could fetch £90,000. The 1992 Batmobile is very different from the one used in the more recent Christian Bale films, which is also known as The Tumbler.
Fancy yourself as a Doctor Who designer? Blue Peter is giving fans the chance to create a new gadget to be used in the show. It's asking for a sonic gadget for either Sontaran Commander Strax, Madame Vastra or Jenny Flint. The competition is open to anyone aged between six and 15 years old. The winning design will feature in an episode of the the sci-fi drama to be recorded later this year. The judges for the competition include Doctor Who writer Steven Moffat and CBBC presenter Chris Johnson - a massive Doctor Who fan himself. There will be three age categories for entries. They are; six to eight years, nine to 11 years and 12 to 15 years. The winning designer will be invited to see their device in action on the set of the Doctor Who, while the three runners up will receive prizes for their work. The competition will be launched in a Blue Peter Doctor Who special on Thursday 21 November at 5.30pm, with winners announced on the Blue Peter Christmas special on Thursday 19 December.
A man has completed his attempt to swim the length of Britain. Sean Conway managed to swim up the west coast from Land's End in south west England to John O'Groats in the far north of Scotland. He was attempting to become the first person to do the 900 mile swim. Conway finished 135 days after he set off and said it was the hardest thing he had ever done. He has been stung 10 times by jellyfish, swallowed lots of sea water and felt seasick. In the past few weeks his jaw has been so cold he has been unable to chew solid foods and has had to have his meals mashed up.He only got to swim 90 of the 135 days - the rest of the time he spent out of the water because of bad weather.
Wild boars have torn up a football pitch for the second time in a week. They are thought to have caused more than £1,000 worth of damage this weekend at Soudley AFC. The club is on the edge of the Forest of Dean where the boar are regularly spotted. It's the third time in total that Soudley AFC has been targeted. Club chairman Ian Marfell told BBC Sport: "Our groundsman reckons it could be up until Christmas until the pitch is fit again, "It could have happened to any club around here, but we're the unlucky ones this time. To see it churned up is a bit of a pain." The boars managed to break through the fences surrounding the ground, leading into the Forest. Five years ago the club had the same problem but the damage wasn't as bad. Mr Marfell said: "There was a boar expert down there the other day and he said they are creatures of habit. Because it's a cut field, they like it better so they get the worms and grubs and things like that, "They just like to get in there quickly and dig up what they are looking for."
After Man City's shock defeat to Sunderland, Spurs losing to Newcastle, Chelsea dropping points against West Brom, and of course, Manchester United beating leaders Arsenal on Sunday… the Premier League title race is wide open…. It's been all shocks and surprises so far, with Liverpool, Southampton and Arsenal currently occupying the top 3 spots in the league table after 11 league games - something not many fans or pundits would have predicted at the start of the season! So it got us thinking, who do you think is going to win the Premier League title this season and why?