PC Keith Blakelock curled up in a ball and screamed for help as a mob hacked him to death during the Broadwater Farm riots, an eyewitness has told the Old Bailey. The witness used the pseudonym John Brown and had his voice distorted by a modulator to protect his identity. He said he saw Nicholas Jacobs stab the 40-year-old police officer between two and four times with a machete in Tottenham in October 1985. Mr Jacobs, 45, denies murder. 'Excitement of situation'Asked by Richard Whittam QC, for the prosecution, what the officer was doing during the attack, Mr Brown said: "What I saw, he was trying to curl up into a ball, I suppose to protect himself somehow. "Did he say anything?" Mr Whittam asked. Nicholas Jacobs and Richard Whittam QC at the Old Bailey on the first day of his trial Nicholas Jacobs, portrayed on the first day of the trial, was not mentioned in John Brown's first statement in 1986, the court heard"I just heard screams of 'Help, help, help'. "Mr Brown, a former member of the Park Lane Boys gang, who accepted a caution for assaulting his partner in 2010, said Jacobs was wielding a machete with a 12-inch (30cm) blade. "He was attacking the officer and hit him with a couple of blows on his body, stabbing up and down with the machete," he said. He told the jury that he himself had kicked the officer some 10 times after he went to the ground. Asked why, he said: "Looking back on it, I don't know. "It was the excitement of the situation, I just rushed forward and kicked him about 10 times. "'Stockpiling petrol bombs'Mr Brown told the court he was 18 or 19 years old at the time of the riots, while Mr Jacobs was 16. He said the Park Lane Boys had been preparing for the riots days before PC Blakelock's death, by stockpiling petrol bombs at a fish and chip shop and it was "common knowledge" there was going to be trouble. Aerial photograph of the Broadwater Farm estateThe witness said petrol bombs had been stockpiled for days before the riot at Broadwater Farm estateCars left overturned and burned-out in the street after rioting on the Broadwater Farm housing estateCars were left overturned and burned out after the rioting in 1985He told the jury that he had heard others say Mr Jacobs was going around saying he was going to "give an officer a hiding if he got the opportunity, or do some damage". But the court heard that Mr Brown had not mentioned Mr Jacobs in the first statement he gave to police about the riots in 1986 and instead waited until later statements before placing him at the scene. Cross-examining the witness, defence barrister Courtenay Griffiths QC said: "You very deliberately chose to name Nicky Jacobs; one, because he was young; two, because he posed no threat to you; and three, you quite wrongly thought that he had been charged with murder. Is that true?"Mr Brown disagreed. 'Kickers and stabbers'Moving on to a new statement Mr Brown made in 1993 claiming, for the first time, he saw Mr Jacobs using a machete, the defence barrister asked whether it had been done for the £5,000 police reward he received. "No, definitely not," Mr Brown replied. When a fresh investigation into PC Blakelock's death got under way in 1992, suspects were separated into "kickers and stabbers". Those who had not used weapons - "kickers" - were given immunity from prosecution as police tried to identify who had stabbed the officer to death. It was then Mr Brown gave evidence claiming for the first time that he had seen Jacobs use a weapon, the court heard. Mr Griffiths asked the witness if police officers had visited him at his home in June 1993 and told him that, in order for there to be a "realistic prospect of prosecution", three or four witnesses would need to come forward. He also asked if Mr Brown had then put his cousin up as an eyewitness in order to get the reward. While he acknowledged police had visited him, Mr Brown said he "totally disagreed" with the barrister's claim. The trial continues. 
Maoist rebels have killed at least 16 policemen in the Indian state of Chhattisgarh, police say. The patrol was on its way to provide security to workers building a road in Sukma district when rebels fired at them, officials say. Twenty-five policemen were injured in the attack, senior police officer Mukesh Gupta told BBC Hindi. Chhattisgarh is a stronghold of the rebels who say they are fighting for the rights of the poor. The Maoists are active in more than a third of India's 600 districts and control large areas of several states in a "red corridor" stretching from north-east to central India. Tuesday's ambush happened in the Tongpal area of Sukma. It is not clear whether the rebels suffered any casualties. Last May, rebels attacked a convoy carrying state Congress leaders and party workers in Sukma, killing 27 people, including some top state politicians. And in April 2012, rebels kidnapped a senior government official in the district, which is part of the Maoist-dominated Bastar region. Alex Paul Menon was freed after 12 days in captivity. The Maoist insurgency began in West Bengal state in the late 1960s and has become, according to Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, the country's "greatest internal security challenge". Major military and police offensives in recent years have pushed the rebels back to their forest strongholds and levels of violence have fallen. But hit-and-run attacks are still common, killing hundreds of people every year. 
A video showing a Nigerian man being brutal attacked by uniformed police in South Africa has sparked public outrage. The footage, which was posted to social media, led to the suspension and arrest of two police officers and prompted a heated discussion about South Africa's attitudes towards immigrants. In a statement to #BBCtrending, the South African Police Service confirmed that the officers involved were from Cape Town Central police station. A spokesperson said they were "horrified" by the incident and said an internal investigation has been launched. The independent police watchdog leading the inquiry told #BBCtrending that social media played a pivotal role in leading to the arrests. There are approximately 17,000 registered Nigerians living in South Africa, according to a study. But it's estimated that up to a million undocumented immigrants are in the country. 
A journalist with British and Swedish nationality has been killed in Afghanistan. Swedish Radio journalist Nils Horner was shot near a busy roundabout in the Wazir Akbar Khan area of Kabul on Tuesday morning. He died on the way to hospital and the gunman escaped. The Foreign Office said it was urgently looking into the reports, and the Swedish ambassador said Mr Horner's family had been told of his death. The Wazir Akbar Khan area, which is usually well-policed, is home to a number of foreign embassies and diplomats, the BBC's Caroline Wyatt said. Peter Semneby, the Swedish ambassador in Kabul, told the Associated Press Mr Horner was a correspondent for Swedish national radio. He added: "We understand he had British nationality in addition to his Swedish nationality. His family has been informed. " A Foreign Office spokesman said: "We have received unconfirmed reports of a shooting in Wazir Akbar Khan that we are urgently looking into. " The Taliban said it was not responsible for the killing, the AFP news agency reported. 
A US army judge has said the military may have improperly pushed for the sex crimes trial of a US army general. Judge Col James Pohl did not dismiss the case, but has offered Brig Gen Jeffrey Sinclair's lawyers another opportunity for a plea deal. Gen Sinclair, 51, is accused of sexually assaulting and threatening a female captain with whom he was having an affair. He has admitted the affair but denied assaulting or threatening the woman. The US military has come under heavy pressure amid what the Pentagon has called an epidemic of rape and other sex crimes. Col Pohl said he had found evidence, in newly-disclosed emails, of unlawful influence from senior military echelons in the decision to reject a plea deal before the trial. Gen Sinclair's defence has argued the former deputy commander of the elite 82nd Airborne Division was the victim of overzealous prosecutors under political pressure. His lawyers now have until Tuesday morning to decide whether to submit a plea bargain proposal to a different set of military officials, or let the court martial proceed. "This is an unprecedented situation," lawyer Richard Scheff said. "It's a mess created by the government. It wasn't created by us. We have so many options, we don't even know what they all are. " Earlier, Gen Sinclair pleaded guilty to three lesser charges against him, including adultery, which is illegal in the military. He faces up to 15 years in prison on the guilty pleas. Military prosecutors had no comment after Monday's hearing. Gen Sinclair's accuser took the stand on Friday, alleging the Army general had threatened to kill her and her family if she ever told anyone of their three-year affair. Prosecutors have alleged he twice ended arguments about their relationship by forcing her to perform oral sex on him. The Pentagon has estimated that as many as 26,000 military members may have been sexually assaulted in 2012, based on an anonymous survey. On Monday, the US Senate approved a bill changing how the US military justice system deals with sexual assault, including prohibiting the use of the "good soldier defence" to raise doubts that a crime has been committed and giving accusers a greater say in whether their cases are tried in a civilian or military court. A more wide-reaching bill on the issue was rejected by the Senate last week. 
Three men have been arrested as part of an ongoing investigation into the sexual exploitation of women in Yeovil. The men, aged 54, 36 and 25, were arrested on suspicion of rape offences. The 36-year-old was also questioned about trafficking and drug offences. It follows a police investigation, started in August, into alleged sex and trafficking offences in the town. Avon and Somerset Police have arrested 15 people to date and charged four. The three arrested men were bailed. 
A man who alleges he was sexually abused by MP Nigel Evans has told a court the politician put his hand down his trousers twice during a night out in Soho. The former deputy speaker of the House of Commons had a "reputation", Preston Crown Court heard. The man said he dismissed the incident as "just Nigel being drunken Nigel". Mr Evans, 56, denies one count of rape, two counts of indecent assault and six of sexual assault. The charges relate to incidents involving seven men, between 2002 and 2013. The alleged victim told the court and that at first he thought Mr Evans was being tactile, during the night out in Soho in 2002, but it was "not a sort of comedy squeeze". The openly gay man said at the time it was an "open secret" in Westminster that the politician was gay. He told the jury they were out with friends when Mr Evans, then the shadow secretary of state for Wales, indecently assaulted him by putting his hand down his trousers at a pub called the Sanctuary on Greek Street in Soho. "He had definitely been drinking, he was acting very drunk and I do remember he seemed to sober up quite quickly," he said. Mark Heywood QC, prosecuting, asked the man when he became first aware of something untoward. He said: "That some fingers had gone down my trousers. He had a reputation. "I walked away rather than make a scene. I did not want him to think I was interested. He told the court: "I was annoyed by it. "I thought if I don't walk away I'm going to hit him. " The man said the MP for Ribble Valley in Lancashire put his hand down his trousers again, prompting the witness, then aged 27, to tell a friend: "I'm going to punch him. " He told the court: "She said, 'You can't do that - the shadow secretary of state for Wales'. The witness said at the time the politician "was my friend, and I certainly forgave him for it because he was drunk. " "I have almost forgotten it," he said. He confirmed he had socialised with Mr Evans since but had never discussed the matter. "When I heard he had been arrested I could not believe it," he said. "I saw him in a corridor and he looked really dreadful. " Under cross examination from Peter Wright QC, he told the jury he considered the matter at the time "as like a big joke". "Not in a million years," did he consider it would have resulted in him appearing in court, he said. He said he did not see himself as a victim of crime and gave a statement to the police after they contacted him last July. In the statement he said he saw the incident in the bar as "drunken over-familiarity, rather than being of a sexual nature". He told police: "It was almost like a drunken 14-year-old at a disco who could not chat you up with words. " The witness confirmed that Mr Evans had not made sexual overtures to him before or since "but he overstepped the mark on one night. " A female friend of the alleged victim told the jury she witnessed the incident. Mr Wright, defending, read her police statement which said: "It appeared to me like a cack-handed way of making a pass. "The sort of thing that sometimes happens in a pub. " The woman told the court the MP was "very drunk". Mr Wright added: "There was no guile. . . nothing furtive. In full view, a drunk man in a public place. And the individual concerned brushed it off?" "He did," the woman replied. Mr Evans resigned as deputy speaker after he was charged in September. He has not returned to the Conservatives in the Commons and is representing his constituents as an independent. The trial continues. 
A 14-year-old boy has appeared in court charged with raping his mother. The teenager, from Blackpool, Lancashire, who cannot be named for legal reasons, appeared at Preston Crown Court for a preliminary hearing. The boy was bailed until his next appearance at Preston Crown Court on 19 May, when he is expected to enter a plea. A provisional trial date at the same court has been scheduled for 27 October. 
A US army judge has said the military may have improperly pushed for the sex crimes trial of a US army general. Judge Col James Pohl did not dismiss the case, but has offered Brig Gen Jeffrey Sinclair's lawyers another opportunity for a plea deal. Gen Sinclair, 51, is accused of sexually assaulting and threatening a female captain with whom he was having an affair. He has admitted the affair but denied assaulting or threatening the woman. The US military has come under heavy pressure amid what the Pentagon has called an epidemic of rape and other sex crimes. Continue reading the main story On Monday, Col Pohl said he had found evidence, in newly-disclosed emails, of unlawful influence from senior military echelons in the decision to reject a plea deal before the trial. Gen Sinclair's defence has argued the former deputy commander of the elite 82nd Airborne Division was the victim of overzealous prosecutors under political pressure. His lawyers now have until Tuesday morning to decide whether to submit a plea bargain proposal to a different set of military officials, or let the court martial proceed. "This is an unprecedented situation," lawyer Richard Scheff said. "It's a mess created by the government. It wasn't created by us. We have so many options, we don't even know what they all are. " Earlier, Gen Sinclair pleaded guilty to three lesser charges against him, including adultery, which is illegal in the military. He faces up to 15 years in prison on the guilty pleas. Military prosecutors had no comment after Monday's hearing. Gen Sinclair's accuser took the stand on Friday, alleging the Army general had threatened to kill her and her family if she ever told anyone of their three-year affair. Prosecutors have alleged he twice ended arguments about their relationship by forcing her to perform oral sex on him. The Pentagon has estimated that as many as 26,000 military members may have been sexually assaulted in 2012, based on an anonymous survey. On Monday, the US Senate approved a bill changing how the US military justice system deals with sexual assault, including prohibiting the use of the "good soldier defence" to raise doubts that a crime has been committed and giving accusers a greater say in whether their cases are tried in a civilian or military court. A more wide-reaching bill on the issue was rejected by the Senate last week. 
The speaker of the House of Commons is to give evidence in the trial of MP Nigel Evans, who is accused of nine sex offences against seven men. 
John Bercow is a prosecution witness in the case at Preston Crown Court against the former Commons deputy speaker. Mr Evans resigned as deputy speaker after he was charged in September. The MP, who retained the seat of Ribble Valley for the Tories in 2010, denies one count of rape, two of indecent assault and six of sexual assault. The 56-year-old Lancashire MP, who currently represents his constituents as an independent, is said to have carried out the attacks between 2002 and 2013. The trial at Preston Crown Court is scheduled to last about four weeks. Mr Bercow was among the names read out by prosecutor Mark Heywood QC. Other witnesses named included fellow MPs Sarah Wollaston, Michael Fabricant, Patrick McLoughlin, Alexander John Randall, Conor Burns and Tom Blenkinsopp. 
A pregnant woman who drove a minivan with her three children inside into the Florida surf appeared in court and was charged with trying to kill her kids. "She told them ´close your eyes and go to sleep,´ she was taking them to a better place," said Volusia County Sheriff Ben Johnson. Her oldest son, 10, told police that they came there "so we could die". All three children could be rescued. 
Investigators have opened a negligence case against the mayor of a far eastern village where a 9-year-old girl was mauled to death by a pack of stray dogs on Monday. The Investigative Committee said Tuesday in a statement that the administration of the village of Tiksi in the Sakha republic was warned repeatedly over the last few years about the need to catch the strays and regulate their numbers. The committee said that "inaction by the head of the village administration" led to the fatal attack. This is second deadly stray dog attack to have befallen the Sakha republic this year. In an unexpected incident worthy of the Spanish inquisition, a couple in eastern Siberia decided their acquaintance was a witch and attempted to burn her alive, though police stopped the impromptu auto-da-fe. The rescue came not a moment too soon, as the couple were at that moment forcing the alleged witch headfirst into a burning stove in an abandoned building, Zabaikalsky Region police said Thursday. The 46-year-old victim was hospitalized with severe burns to her face and hands, police said in a statement. The culprit was a 41-year-old local woman who was aided by a male acquaintance, the report said, without releasing their names. The duo, who both had criminal records, reportedly came to the conclusion that the other woman was a witch while discussing her during a drinking session. They then headed to her house and kidnapped her in order to exorcize the devil from her through fire. However, a visitor to the victim’s house found traces of a struggle and alerted the police. An investigation has been launched into the incident. Meanwhile, the female accuser has been admitted to a psychiatric ward. It remained unclear what had prompted the witchcraft allegations. 
A murder victim was left in an "unrecognisable state" after one of two attackers jumped on his head "as if it was a trampoline", a court has heard. Lee Smyth, 32, never regained consciousness after the attack in Armagh in June 2010. He lived in an "almost vegetative state" in a nursing home for just over two years before a decision was taken to switch off the life-support machine. One of the men charged with the murder is serving soldier Michael Wilson. Mr Wilson, 23, of Marlacoo Road, Tandragee, County Armagh, is also accused of robbing Mr Smyth, as he lay covered in blood and unconscious, of a "simple, cheap" cigarette tin. A second man, Gareth McKinney, 24, with an address at Charles Park in Portadown, County Armagh, is also charged with the murder. He admits being present when Mr Smyth was attacked, but maintains he was trying, without success, to restrain Mr Wilson. Mr Smyth was found a few hours later by a woman walking her dog. He was unconscious, covered in blood and struggling to breathe. Opening the prosecution case at Armagh Crown Court, a lawyer said: "This is a distressingly familiar story - young men emboldened by drink attack each other, perhaps for some perceived slight, virtually nothing at all. " He said the pair had behaved outside all normal constraints. "This attack was gratuitously violent," he said. "They attacked a man who was prone and defenceless. " He said the prosecution would hear from a witness, the then girlfriend of Mr McKinney, who would say that both men took part in the attack on Mr Smyth. She said that Mr Smyth's head had been jumped on "like a trampoline". The case continues. 
As temperatures in Moscow reached a record high for the third day in a row on Monday, hundreds of people rushed to one of the city's central squares — but not to enjoy the sunshine. Instead, they had come to express clashing opinions regarding the tense situation in Ukraine, where forces believed to be Russian have taken control of Crimea. Two rallies, one in support of Russian authorities' actions in Ukraine and the other an anti-war demonstration, were held consecutively on Novopushkinsky Square, where police set up a fence to prevent possible scuffles between the two groups of demonstrators. Several hundred people led by Russian nationalists occupied the square first, holding Russian flags and anti-Western banners. Activists speaking from the stage said eastern regions of Ukraine were historically Russian and must "return home. " "We are demanding freedom for Russian people who want to join Russia and do not want to be controlled by a group of oligarchs and fascists," said Party of Action leader Konstantin Babkin, referring to the current Ukrainian authorities, whom Russia has refused to recognize as legitimate. Babkin and other activists speaking at the rally mocked Western countries for saying an upcoming referendum in Crimea to join Russia would be illegal and said such referendums must be held across Ukraine, since it was the only "democratic way for Ukraine to escape bloodshed. " The speakers appeared to think that Crimea had no other option but to join Russia in the near future. Prominent Russian nationalist Eduard Limonov said Russia must regain all its territories that were lost as a result of the Soviet collapse in 1991, in response to which people began to shout "glory to Russia!"
For much of last week, the events in Crimea and Ukraine were at the foreground of the British media. However, amongst the acres of newsprint and online newspaper blogs which were devoted to reporting and analysing the subject, elements of satire reared their head. It was only to be expected that The Sun, Britain's best selling tabloid — noted for its sense of humour and a fish and chips-type of patriotism — would be in the vanguard. On March 3 it published a full page picture of a bare-chested Vladimir Putin on the cover with a sardonic headline rephrasing an old football chant: "Come 'n have a go if EU think you're hard enough. " This was a reference to Putin's image as the Iron Man of Russia standing up to the West, notably the European Union. The more sober and considerably less-widely read Independent went with the headline "How do you solve a problem like Crimea?" This reworded the song "How do you solve a problem like Maria?" by Rogers and Hammerstein from "The Sound of Music" to describe the complexities of the current situation. Meanwhile the veteran satirical magazine Private Eye devoted the cover of their March 7 issue to Putin and the Winter Olympics: "Winter Paramilitary Games Begin," said the headline, with Putin saying "I think Russia is going to win the shooting. " At the more serious end of the journalistic spectrum, The Economist's March 8 issue struck a much more ominous note with a cover showing the eyes of Putin superimposed over a map of Ukraine and the headline: "Kidnapped by the Kremlin. " The Ukraine crisis came at the same time as the Academy Awards, which is always a big event in the British media, so it was not surprising that the political cartoonists sought one to inspire the other. British director Steve McQueen's "12 Years a Slave" won Best Picture on March 2. Two days later, The Times ran a cartoon depicting again a bare-chested Putin with machine gun over his shoulder pulling a chained Ukraine, with the caption: "12 Thousand Years a Slav. " Elsewhere a cartoon in The Daily Telegraph pastiched the much-tweeted selfie taken by Ellen Degeneres and nominees during the ceremony and replaced the celebrities with Putin and a concerned-looking Obama, Merkel, Cameron and Hollande. Meanwhile, Prime Minister Cameron posted on Twitter a photo of himself looking serious whilst on the phone to the U. S. president with the tweet: "I've been speaking to @BarackObama about the situation in Ukraine. We are united in condemnation of Russia's actions. "
The father of a six-year-old girl, who died from head injuries, has appeared in court charged with her murder. Ben Butler, 34, appeared at Croydon Magistrates' Court accused of killing Ellie Butler. Ellie was treated by paramedics at her home in Sutton, south-west London, on 28 October. The Avenue Primary School pupil was taken to hospital but died. Mr Butler was remanded in custody and is due to appear at Croydon Crown Court on Thursday. A 34-year-old woman arrested in connection with the investigation has been bailed. 
A teenager has been arrested in connection with a serious sexual assault in Scarborough. A 19-year-old woman was attacked in a car park near King Street in the town, some time between 02:40 and 03:20 GMT on Sunday. An 18-year-old man remains in the custody of North Yorkshire Police for questioning. The force has urged anyone who might have been in the area on Sunday morning to get in touch. 
A teenager who claimed she was being abused by her father was refused help by a South Yorkshire council and told to go home, a watchdog has found. A Local Government Ombudsman report said Doncaster Council believed the 17-year-old was "not their responsibility" because she was from North Yorkshire. It said social workers failed to assess whether she was at risk of "significant harm" if she returned home. Children's services instead gave her £50 towards travel costs. The report said the authority had a legal responsibility to assess a young homeless person's needs "regardless of where they came from". An investigation found the girl had fled to Doncaster in 2012 to stay with her boyfriend's family. She told social workers in the town her father was "extremely controlling", had been physically abusive to her since the age of nine, and had threatened to burn down her boyfriend's home. But the council told her they would not help. Dr Jane Martin, local government ombudsman, said: "I am concerned that a vulnerable young girl, who has repeatedly asked for help from Doncaster Council, [was] told at every turn she [was] not their responsibility. "The law is clear on this, a child does not have to be 'ordinarily resident' in a council's area, and [the council] should have assessed the girl's situation when she came to them and presented as homeless. " Social workers referred the girl to North Yorkshire County Council, who told them responsibility lay with Doncaster Council. But the report said children's services disagreed and did not assess her. The council was ordered to apologise to the girl and pay her £600. It said it has since reviewed its procedures. Eleanor Brazil, director of children's services, said: "We felt at the time that assisting [the girl] to return home, and asking the home authority to assess any need for intervention. . . was the right approach and we have liaised with colleagues in her home authority to help that to happen. "
A woman used drugs and alcohol in order to befriend teenage girls and lure them into a life of prostitution, a court has been told. Amanda Spencer, 22, had taught the girls how to dress provocatively and lie about their age, a jury at Sheffield Crown Court heard. Miss Spencer denies almost 40 charges relating to child prostitution between 2006 and 2011. Five men also deny charges relating to the exploitation of underage girls. The prosecution allege Miss Spencer exploited nine teenage girls whom she befriended and introduced into prostitution. She is alleged to have begun this process when she herself was a teenager. The jury was told she had grown up in the care system like the majority of the alleged victims. She was, the prosecution said, a fraud who pretended to be a friend and lured others into a life of abuse from which she benefitted. Miss Spencer referred to the alleged victims' as her sisters but many were frightened of her, the prosecution argued. She is accused of arranging or facilitating a child sexual offences, inciting or causing a child to become a prostitute and inciting or arranging or facilitating the prostitution of a child. Lee Unwin, 26, and John McLachlan, 65, both deny paying for the sexual service of a child. Kareem Ahmed, 29, is accused of arranging or facilitating travel for the commission of a sexual offence. Bashdar Hamadamin, 26, faces a charge of rape. A fifth man, who cannot be named, denies three counts of sexual assault. The trial continues. 
Three lapdancers wore "miniskirts, stilettos and Daisy Duke shorts" as they kidnapped a club boss, a court has heard. Mandy Cool, Rachel Goodchild, Stephanie Pye, along with their manager Charlotte Devaney, are accused of kidnapping Curtis Woodman, from Cheltenham, who employed them in a club he rented. Mr Woodman told Bristol Crown Court he was forced into a car, assaulted and robbed by the women and two men. The women deny the charge of kidnap. Giving evidence, Mr Woodman said he was outside his work in Tewkesbury, Gloucestershire, when the group - including brothers Alexander and Robert Morris - drove up in two BMWs. He said they "surrounded him" before forcing him into one of the cars and driving off. 
An investigation is to be held into why a Welsh government website offered young people advice on how to become strippers and set up escort agencies. First Minister Carwyn Jones faced AMs questions about the entrepreneurship website Big Ideas Wales. Liberal Democrat Eluned Parrott asked if ministers should promote such "career opportunities" to young people. Mr Jones said he had not been aware of the advice and would ensure there was a "full investigation". Ms Parrott told Mr Jones at first minister's questions: "I've been looking at the Welsh government's Big Ideas Wales website, which describes itself as 'Guiding Young People to Start Up'. "On the page 'Useful Guides to Turn Ideas into Reality' it links through to a series of fact sheets including how to set up your own escort agency, how to set up your own lap dancing club and how to become a stripper. "Now these are of course legal enterprises, but are they, do you think, the kind of aspirational career opportunities that the Welsh government should be actively promoting to young people?" Mr Jones replied, "No. I was made aware of this some ten minutes before I came into the chamber and I will ensure there is a full investigation into how this happened. " The section of the website containing the advice has already been taken down. 
An advertising regulator has banned adverts by a Leeds nightclub promoter after the city council complained they were sexually explicit. The promotional material for a student night at the city's Mezz bar featured "women in various states of undress", according to the Advertising Standards Authority (ASA). It upheld six out of seven of Leeds City Council's complaints. The event's promoter, Tequila UK, has not commented on the ruling. The council claimed online material published by Tequila UK breached ASA's advertising codes, by containing nudity and "sexually suggestive language and imagery and profanity. " as well as encouraging "excessive consumption of alcohol". The authority also claimed the adverts could be seen by people aged under 18. In its defence, Tequila UK said it "accepted that some ads contained sexually suggestive language but believed that was not likely to cause offence". It also said it had modified the adverts and videos to remove images of drinking and claimed the material was not targeted at under 18s. The watchdog said: "The ads must not appear again in their current form. " In December, Leeds City Council suspended the Mezz bar's licence following "a large number of complaints". Labour councillor Graham Hyde, acting chair of the council's licensing committee, said: "This ruling should serve as a warning to other club night organisers that we will take action if we feel that the public is being subjected to offensive and harmful advertising in our city. "
The Paedophile Information Exchange was affiliated to the National Council for Civil Liberties - now Liberty - in the late 1970s and early 1980s. But how did pro-paedophile campaigners operate so openly? A gay rights conference backs a motion in favour of paedophilia. The story is written up by a national newspaper as "Child-lovers win fight for role in Gay Lib". It sounds like a nightmarish plotline from dystopian fiction. But this happened in the UK. The conference took place in Sheffield and the newspaper was the Guardian. The year was 1975. It's part of the story of how paedophiles tried to go mainstream in the 1970s. The group behind the attempt - the Paedophile Information Exchange - is back in the news because of a series of stories run by the Daily Mail about Labour deputy leader Harriet Harman. The Daily Mail has revisited the story of PIE to ask how much Harman and her husband the MP Jack Dromey knew about the group during their time working at the National Council for Civil Liberties, now Liberty, in the late 1970s. PIE was affiliated to the NCCL from the late 1970s to early 1980s. Many of the revelations are not in fact new. The story's return to the front pages demonstrates the shock people feel about how a group with "paedophile" in its name could operate so openly for so long. PIE was formed in 1974. It campaigned for "children's sexuality". It wanted the government to axe or lower the age of consent. It offered support to adults "in legal difficulties concerning sexual acts with consenting 'under age' partners". The real aim was to normalise sex with children. Journalist Christian Wolmar remembers their tactics. "They didn't emphasise that this was 50-year-old men wanting to have sex with five-year-olds. They presented it as the sexual liberation of children, that children should have the right to sex," he says. 
Two paedophiles have launched another legal challenge against their conviction for murdering a woman and dumping her body at sea. William Lauchlan, 37, and Charles O'Neill, 51, killed Allison McGarrigle in Largs in 1997 as she planned to report them for abusing a boy. The 39-year-old's body has never been found. The Court of Criminal Appeal in Edinburgh heard that the new challenge was over a "prejudicial question". At their original trial, a police officer describing efforts to trace Mrs McGarrigle after she went missing in 1998 said - in answer to a question from judge Lord Pentland - that he thought she was dead. 
Police in Colombia say the body of a man from Bristol who died after taking part in a tribal ritual had been "abandoned" on a remote forest road. Henry Miller, 19, died after apparently consuming a traditional hallucinogenic drink known as yage. Police said two men on a motorcycle tried to take Mr Miller to hospital when he became ill, but he died on the way and they left him at the roadside. Colombian authorities said the cause of death was "not definitely established". Ricardo Suarez Putumayo police commander Ricardo Suarez said Henry Miller's health "deteriorated" after consuming the traditional drinkPolice commander Ricardo Suarez said: "The first hypothesis is an excessive consumption of this traditional drink - yage - native to indigenous communities. "He said Mr Miller's health deteriorated following the drink and a local shaman in the Putumayo region sent him off for medical help. Henry Miller was due to go to university in SeptemberThe indigenous tribe involved in the ritual and the "two frightened young men" who left the body had now been identified, said the Putumayo police commander. Mr Miller's parents David and Elizabeth Miller paid tribute to their son, who was due to start university in September. In a statement, they said: "He was polite, popular with a great sense of humour and was very much loved by his family and his many friends. "We hope we can all be given the time and space to come to terms with what has happened and to grieve for our son and brother. "They said they understood their son's reaction to the drink made from local plant infusions was "likely" to be the cause of his death, but they were awaiting further information from the Foreign Office. 
The murder of a woman in a Glasgow park in December is to feature for a second time on BBC's Crimewatch programme, in a renewed effort to find her killer. Police launched a murder inquiry after the body of Jean Campbell, 53, was found in Cranhill Park on 14 December. The officer leading the investigation will appear on Crimewatch to renew appeals for information. January, CCTV images of Mrs Campbell in a local shop and walking her dog were broadcast on the programme. Police said they received a number of calls after the show but who killed her and why she was killed are still unknown. Det Ch Insp Colin Carey said: "Our inquiries have been intense and thorough, with a dedicated team of experienced detectives working around the clock on the inquiry, however the person responsible for her murder and the reason why it happened have still to be established. "Over 1,500 DNA samples have been taken from people, both men and women, in the area with hundreds of homes visited when conducting the house-to-house inquiries. "We believe that the local community holds the key to solving this inquiry and I would again appeal to anyone with information to come forward to police. "I really do believe that there is someone out there who is either harbouring the person responsible or knows who is responsible but has not been in contact with police. "This can of course be for a number of reasons, fear or intimidation being the most obvious. "
Saudi Arabia says more than 100 patients infected with the Mers coronavirus have now died since the outbreak began in 2012. The health ministry said another eight deaths occurred on Sunday, taking the toll to 102. The acting health minister says three hospitals in Riyadh, Jeddah and Dammam have been designated specialist centres for treating Mers. Mers causes symptoms including fever, pneumonia and kidney failure. The rate of infections is increasing and the World Health Organization (WHO) has offered to help Saudi Arabia investigate infection patterns. The Saudi health ministry reported the latest deaths in a statement late on Sunday. Among the victims were a child in the capital, Riyadh, and three people in the western city of Jeddah. The ministry said it had detected a total of 16 new cases of Mers (Middle East Respiratory Syndrome) over the past 24 hours. Acting health minister Adel Fakieh said the three hospitals designated as specialist centres for Mers treatment can accommodate 146 patients in intensive care. On Saturday, Egypt recorded its first case - a 27-year-old man who had recently returned from Saudi Arabia. Correspondents say many Saudis have voiced concerns on social media about government handling of the outbreak. Last Monday, Saudi health minister Abdullah al-Rabiah was sacked without explanation as the Mers death toll climbed. 
Post-mortem examinations on three children found dead in their south-west London home have proved inconclusive, the Met Police has said. Olivia, four, and three-year-old twins Ben and Max Clarence were found at the family's home in New Malden on Tuesday. Scotland Yard said the examinations "did not establish a cause of death" and further tests would be carried out. The children's mother, Tania Clarence, 42, has been charged with three counts of murder. Genetic disorderShe has been remanded in custody to appear at the Old Bailey on 29 April. The sibling's father, Gary Clarence, a director at City bank Investec, was on holiday in South Africa with members of his family, including the couple's eight-year-old daughter, when he was told about the deaths of his children. In a statement, he said it was an "extreme tragedy" with devastating consequences. The three children had the life-limiting genetic disorder Spinal Muscular Atrophy. 
Former Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi has sparked outrage by saying "for the Germans, concentration camps never existed". He was referring to a previous gaffe in which he told a German MEP that he could play a Nazi concentration camp guard in a film. His latest comments were at a rally in Milan ahead of the European elections. German Families Minister Manuela Schwesig said Berlusconi's "attacks" against Germans were "unspeakable". Berlusconi was referring to a 2003 incident involving MEP Martin Schulz, who is now president of the European parliament. He had said to Mr Schulz: "I know that in Italy there is a man producing a film on Nazi concentration camps - I shall put you forward for the role of Kapo [guard] - you would be perfect. "The president of Mr Schulz's Socialists and Democrats (S&D) bloc, Hannes Swoboda, called Berlusconi's latest comments "sickening". Numerous trialshis is the latest in a long line of Berlusconi comments to have sparked criticism. Berlusconi is one of Italy's richest men and served as prime minister for nine months from May 1994 and then again for two terms from 2001 to 2006 and from 2008 to 2011. He faced frequent allegations of conflicts of interest but it was Italy's debt crisis that forced his resignation in 2011. He is embroiled in several legal cases and in 2012 was convicted of tax fraud, leading to his expulsion from the Italian Senate. His sentence for that conviction was to carry out community service in an old people's home. Berlusconi maintains he is the target of a vendetta by left-wing judges and once described himself as "without doubt the person who's been the most persecuted in the entire history of the world and the history of man". He retains a considerable following on the right of Italian politics and is still leader of Forza Italia, the main conservative opposition bloc. However, in March Italy's highest court upheld a two-year ban on him holding public office. 
A second man arrested in connection with the death of a Norfolk teenager more than 20 years ago has been released on bail. Johanna Young, 14, disappeared from her family home in Watton on 23 December 1992. She was found dead on Boxing Day. The man, in his 30s from the Thetford area, has been bailed pending further inquiries. A man in his 40s from the Watton area, who was arrested on Thursday, has also been bailed until early June. 
The husband of an Irish woman who was murdered in Australia has spoken publicly for the first time about her killing. Jill Meagher, originally from Drogheda, County Louth, was murdered in September 2012 in Melbourne where she had been working. Adrian Bayley was jailed for a minimum of 35 years for her rape and murder. Her husband Tom told RTÉ's Late Late Show: "I hated him, obviously, and I still do - I think I would have to have some form of religious experience to get to a point where I don't. "At first I had lots of thoughts of revenge, lots of violent thoughts, but I came to a point where I realised how self-destructive that was. "That didn't happen overnight - that was a long process. "Mr Meagher, who has moved back to Ireland, said he had been able to channel these feelings into something positive with his involvement in the White Ribbon campaign, a men's organisation that aims to tackle harmful attitudes and behaviours that could lead to attacks on women. "Most men are not violent and we want to make those men leaders of their male peer groups; to challenge men when they say disparaging things about women or say things they are uncomfortable about," he said. Jill and Tom Meagher moved to Australia from Ireland in 2009. The 29-year-old worked for ABC radio in Melbourne but went missing following a night out with colleagues on 22 September. Her body was discovered six days later, buried in a shallow grave by a dirt road about 30 miles north west of the city. Bayley had been on parole for previous rape convictions at the time of the murder. 
A woman who was violently assaulted in Hull in March last year has condemned the justice system because her attacker is still to be sentenced. The 24-year-old was walking home from a nightclub when Rolands Brize pulled her under a bridge. The attack was stopped by police responding to a 999 call. Brize, a Latvian national, pleaded guilty to attempted rape a few weeks later, but the case has now been adjourned 11 times. The victim said she felt her attacker had been treated better than her. She told BBC Radio 4's Today programme the reasons given for the adjournments included Mr Brize's psychiatric issues and delays in his psychological assessment. Other reasons given were a lack of beds in secure units and no Latvian translators within the health system, she said. Despite Brize's early guilty plea, she said she had been to court almost every month for a year since the attack. 'Hopeless situation' I feel longer than a year has been more than enough to assess somebody. It's so draining, it's so tiring," she told the programme. The judge who called the delays a scandal has now issued an ultimatum, saying he will sentence Brize in three weeks regardless of psychiatric assessment, she said. 
Canada's military has ordered an internal review after publication of a report suggested sexual assault "plagues" the country's armed forces. An investigation by Canadian magazines Maclean's and L'actualite found five alleged assaults per day within the military community. The report says those who reported rape or assault faced reprisals. In a statement, Defence Minister Rob Nicholson said he was "deeply angered upon learning of the alleged assaults". "Sexual misconduct of all kinds will not be tolerated within the Canadian Armed Forces," Mr Nicholson said, adding he had asked Chief of Defence Staff General Tom Lawson "to get to the bottom of these serious matters". Gen Lawson said he said he had "directed an immediate internal review" of workplace programmes and policies. "Further to this, I will consider options for external review. "The two magazines interviewed 12 alleged victims of rape or sexual assault and obtained records through access to information laws to develop the months-long investigation. According to a preview video by Maclean's, the alleged assaults took place in a variety of locations, including postings in Afghanistan, and occurred to both women and men. One the reporters told broadcaster CTV the military's culture discourages victims from reporting sexual assaults, as there is no way superior officers will not be informed of complaints. "The fact that they are a military family, they are obliged to band together and be one team," Alex Castonguay said. "It [breaks] all the unity inside the Canadian military so people are not complaining a lot, they are fearing retaliations. "The report follows a similar extensive investigation by MacLean's in 1998. 
Police have arrested eight men believed to be part of a major organised crime group. The arrests were part of a cross-border operation which involved officers from Scotland, Merseyside and the UK's National Crime Agency. The intelligence-led investigation focused on the importation and distribution of Class A and B drugs across central Scotland. Seven of the men were arrested in the west of Scotland. The men, aged, 23, 28, 31, 39, 45, 47, and 53, were detained in Paisley, Johnstone, Lanarkshire and Hamilton. A further man aged 45 was arrested in the Lincolnshire area. It brought the total number of people arrested since the start of the operation to 20. A total of £7m worth of drugs - mainly cocaine and amphetamine - have also been recovered. Police Scotland said the latest arrests were culmination of work which will, in effect, bring down an entire organised crime group concerned in the distribution of millions of pounds of drugs. Det Ch Supt John Cuddihy, the force's head of organised crime and counter terrorism, said: "Police Scotland remains absolutely determined to rid our communities of serious and organised criminal gangs and we will continue to relentlessly target those involved in the sale and supply of controlled drugs. "Hundreds of kilograms of amphetamine have already been seized and significant amounts of class A and class B drugs have been taken off the streets of the west of Scotland. "He added: "In total 20 people have been arrested since the start of this operation which undoubtedly has had a significant impact not only on an organised crime group and its ability to function but on the availability of these drugs in our communities. "All eight men are expected to appear at Paisley Sheriff Court on Monday. 
It is, according to the estate agents, "probably the most valuable plot of land with planning permission to come to the market for sale in Hampstead Village … ever". The Regency-style house now being constructed will provide, behind its electric gates, a cinema, swimming pool and gymnasium and the future owner of this £7m property will be living, we learn, where Constable, and Keats, too, found inspiration. What the estate agents do not mention is that on this very plot more than seven years ago a murder took place with links to the British government, Chairman Mao and George Bernard Shaw. A killing which was then followed by the first murder trial in Britain in which most of the evidence was heard in secret with the media barred from entering the court. Now an appeal to the European court of human rights (ECHR) could finally throw a light on the mystery of Downshire Hill. In June 2006 the body of Allan Chappelow, a reclusive and wealthy retired journalist and author, was found buried beneath a enormous pile of book proofs in his home, No 9 Downshire Hill, close to Hampstead Heath. Police had gone to the house after being alerted by his bank, HSBC, in the wake of suspicious transactions and his failure to respond to their inquiries. He had been battered to death. Wax found on his body suggested that he might have been tortured. 
A gay bank worker who murdered his wife in an attempt to hide his sexuality has been ordered to serve at least 21 years behind bars. Jasvir Ginday, 29, was sentenced on Friday to life imprisonment with a minimum term of 21 years for killing his wife months after marrying her to hide his sexuality and burning her body in a garden incinerator . He used a vacuum cleaner pipe to strangle Varkha Rani, 24, who was isolated and friendless after arriving in Britain from India following the arranged marriage. Police found her remains in the garden of the couple's neat home in Walsall, West Midlands, after neighbours reported thick, unpleasant-smelling smoke. Ginday told police he had been burning leaves, but one of the officers lifted the lid of the incinerator and saw the remains of a skull. Rani had been placed in the incinerator in the foetal position. There was no evidence she was forced in alive. Officers found a bangle, a bracelet and an inscribed ring presented to her on her wedding day. Burnt jewellery and paperwork were discovered in adjoining parkland. Judge John Warner told Ginday, who has no previous convictions, his behaviour towards Rani before the killing had been a "fundamental deception" of a vulnerable woman living thousands of miles from her home country. "It was a very cruel situation in which you put her. You have told lie after lie about a number of matters such that it is impossible to rely on anything you say. I am satisfied you intended to kill – you are a devious, controlling man and a meticulous planner in a number of aspects of your life. "
What began as a hate crime investigation two years ago has led to the murder conviction of an Iraqi immigrant, whose wife was found badly beaten with a threatening note labeling her a terrorist. The verdict delivered Thursday against Kassim Alhimidi, who shook his head and wagged his finger as jurors were polled, spurred more of the drama that has surrounded the case from the start. His oldest son stood, shouted obscenities and proclaimed his father's innocence before several deputies wrestled him out of the courtroom. Another son also shouted in his father's defense, while the victim's mother said Alhimidi deserved worse, according to the official court translator, Nahla David. Superior court judge William McGrath and the jury cleared the courtroom during the outbursts. After a brief recess, the judge returned and scheduled sentencing for 15 May. Alhimidi faces a maximum sentence of life in prison for the bludgeoning death of his 32-year-old wife, Shaima Alawadi, at their house in El Cajon, California, home to one of the largest enclaves of Iraqi immigrants in the US. Local and federal investigators initially suspected a hate crime until lab tests determined that a threatening note that read, "This is my country, go back to yours, you terrorist," was a photocopy – possibly of a note found outside the family home a week earlier by one of the couple's five children. The couple's eldest daughter, then 17, found her mother in a pool of blood on the kitchen floor of their suburban San Diego home in March 2012, her body tangled in a computer cord and desk chair. She had multiple skull fractures from blunt force and died two days after the attack. A sliding glass door was shattered. Prosecutors argued Alhimidi lied to police about his troubled marriage and apologized to his wife as she lay dying in a hospital. Defense lawyers said Alhimidi loved his wife, that he was not a violent man, and that he returned from Iraq after burying his wife there. Prosecutors told the San Diego County jury during a two-week trial that Alhimidi was distraught over his wie's plans to leave him and had urged his children and relatives to get her to stay. Detectives found documents in Alawadi's car indicating she planned to seek a divorce, and the eldest daughter, Fatima, told investigators that her mother wanted to move to Texas to be with her sister. 
The 1991 conviction of a man for murdering a runaway Cardiff teenager has been referred to the court of appeal to examine whether there has been a miscarriage of justice. The Criminal Cases Review Commission (CCRC) has asked the court to review the case of Alan Charlton, behind whose home the body of 15-year-old Karen Price was discovered. One of the grounds of the referral, the CCRC said, was new evidence that a number of South Wales police officers who were involved in the Lynette White murder inquiry and the Philip Saunders murder inquiry were also involved in the Charlton case. The CCRC said the officers "may have used investigative techniques similar to those used in the Lynette White and Philip Saunders cases and which contributed to the quashing of the convictions in those cases. "Charlton, who is still in prison, pleaded not guilty but was convicted, on 26 February 1991 at Cardiff crown court, of the murder of Price. His appeal against conviction in 1994 was dismissed. Another man, Idris Ali, pleaded guilty to manslaughter and has since been released. "Following a complex, wide-ranging and lengthy investigation, the commission has decided to refer Mr Charlton's murder conviction to the court of appeal because it considers that there is a real possibility that the court will quash the conviction," the CCRC said. Charlton was sentenced to life imprisonment with a tariff of 15 years. Price had been living at a residential children's home in Cardiff at the time of her disappearance. She had last been seen on 2 July 1981 when she had run away from the establishment. Her murder was assumed to have taken place shortly after her disappearance, the CCRC said. Her skeletal remains were uncovered by workmen digging at the rear of 29 Fitzhamon Embankment, Cardiff, on 7 December 1989. The basement flat at that address had been occupied by Charlton at the time of Price's disappearance. 
More than two years after they were acquitted of the murder of the British exchange student Meredith Kercher, Amanda Knox and Raffaele Sollecito face another Italian court verdict on Thursday that could uphold their original convictions and eventually pave the way for an extradition battle with the United States. In the latest chapter of legal proceedings resulting from the brutal 2007 killing, the appeals court in Florence is due to rule on whether the former lovers should once again have their murder convictions overturned, or whether those guilty verdicts still stand. 
A group of 23 students have filed a federal complaint against Columbia University alleging the school failed to protect victims of sexual assault, according to a statement from the students. The complaint alleges the Ivy League university discouraged students from reporting sexual assaults, allowed perpetrators to remain on campus, sanctioned inadequate disciplinary actions for perpetrators and discriminated against students based on their sexual orientation, according to a statement from the students who are calling themselves Our Stories CU. The students collectively filed the complaint Thursday with the U. S. Department of Education, alleging violations of Title II, Title IX and the Clery Act against Columbia and Barnard College, the affiliated women's school. Title II is a part of the Americans With Disabilities Act, and Title IX is part of the Higher Education Act. The Clery Act is a federal law that requires colleges and universities across the United States to disclose information about crime on and around their campuses. In a statement Friday to CNN, Columbia said it had been informed of the complaint but it had not seen it and could not comment on the allegations. "Sexual assault and gender misconduct are unacceptable, including on college and university campuses," Columbia said in a statement. "We have been working with students, faculty and staff to make that emphatically clear on our campus and have already taken the first of a series of significant new measures dedicated to preventing such sexual misconduct, supporting survivors, and improving adjudication of these painful cases. "
Texas authorities initiated the seizure of the 1,600-acre ranch where prosecutors say polygamist sect leader Warren Jeffs and others sexually abused children, officials said Thursday. The Texas Department of Public Safety and the Schleicher County Sheriff's Office met Wednesday afternoon with two residents of the Yearning for Zion Ranch near Eldorado, Texas, and those occupants said eight adults live there, a DPS spokesman said Thursday. Authorities provided the residents with copies of court orders directing the state to take possession of the forfeited ranch, state officials said. "Law enforcement personnel are working with the occupants of the ranch to take all reasonable actions to assist with their departure of the property, to preserve the property, and to successfully execute the court order," the state agency said. More from KSAN/KLST Fmr. bodyguard: Jeffs still wields power Woman escapes with kids from FLDS Warren Jeffs ordering child labor? Watkiss: Texas was a bad move for FLDSThe state obtained the final judgment of forfeiture on January 6, authorities said. The Attorney General's Office filed for the seizure of the property in 2012. In 2008, in response to phone calls to a family violence hot line alleging abuse and rape, police raided the ranch, and 416 children were initially removed. That figure rose to 468 after some of the mothers were found to be younger than 18. About 130 women voluntarily left the compound. 
Authorities nationwide are searching for a Minnesota minister accused of 59 felony counts of criminal sexual conduct with two young girls while they were members of his church. Victor Barnard, 52, was last seen in Spokane, Washington, according to a written statement from the Washington State Patrol. On April 11, prosecutors in Pine County, Minnesota, issued a criminal complaint after a two-year investigation into allegations from two women about Barnard's alleged conduct while he was preaching to a religious group in Finlayson, Minnesota. Lindsay Tornambe is one of the two women, who are referred to as "B" and "C" in the complaint. Now 27, she lives in Bethesda, Maryland. She wants Barnard to go to prison. "I definitely don't want him hurting anyone else and ruining other people's lives like mine was," she told CNN. The complaint says Tornambe alleges that she was sexually abused by Barnard from the ages of 13 to 22 while she and her parents were members of the River Road Fellowship. Tornambe told investigators that Barnard created a group of 10 young girls and women who were known as Alamoths, or maidens. Her group was sent to what she thought was a summer camp, the document says. Tornambe alleges that Barnard first molested her after he preached to her that he represented Jesus Christ in the flesh. She told investigators that she estimated that Barnard sexually assaulted her one to three times a month until she left in 2010 to be with her parents, who had moved to Pennsylvania. In fall 2011, she was contacted by another former maiden who shared a similar story; she said she was molested by Barnard from the time she was 12 until she was 20, although she said the number of sexual acts varied each month. 
North Korea has launched a vitriolic attack on the South Korean president, comparing her to "crafty prostitute" in thrall to her "pimp" Barack Obama. It also described Park Geun-hye as America's "comfort woman", a reference likely to enrage many in South Korea, where anger still runs high over the plight of thousands of women who were enslaved in Japanese military brothels during the second world war. The comments were issued on Sunday by the Committee for the Peaceful Reunification of Korea (CPRK), which handles cross-border affairs, following the US president's two-day visit to Seoul. He arrived in Malaysia on Sunday for the penultimate stop on his four-nation tour of Asia. While Pyongyang is known for its aggressive rhetoric, recent remarks have been unusually personal. Earlier this month state media ran misogynist articles, including one headlined "We accuse Park the bitch", labellingher as a lunatic, idiot and "cold-blooded animal" and emphasising the fact that she has never married or had children. 
A police officer was assaulted and five people - including a 16-year-old boy - have been arrested following a night of violence in Mottingham. Police, including the Met helicopter and dog unit, were called out to Kimmeridge Road at around 7. 10pm last night (April 26) following reports of criminal damage and anti-social behaviour. While attempting to make an arrest, one officer was assaulted and left with a broken ankle, requiring hospital treatment. A 16-year-old boy was arrested on suspicion of grievous bodily harm, resisting arrest and criminal damage. A 20-year-old man was also arrested on suspicion of obstructing police. They were both taken to a south London police station where they remain in custody. Officers were then called out to the road for a second time, at 8. 20pm, following reports of a fight. They initially found no trace but the Air Support Unit later saw a male in possession of what was believed to be a baseball bat, leaving the area in a car. That vehicle was stopped and three people were arrested on suspicion of possession of offensive weapons. They also remain in custody. 
THANE: A 14-year-old girl was sexually assaulted by a boy, also 14, in Kausa area of Mumbra on Thursday when her parents went to cast their vote. The accused, who is the victim's neighbour, knew her from before. Allegedly, he entered the house taking advantage of the situation and touched her inappropriately. The victims younger brother, who was present at the house, tried to stopped him but the accused flashed a knife and threatened him. After her parents came back, the girl narrated the incident to them and they decided to lodge a police complaint. "We are searching for the boy, who is absconding right now," said a police officer. The Mumbra police have registered a case under section 452, 354 (A) and 506 of the Indian penal code
Hyderabad: A six-year-old minor girl was allegedly sexually assaulted by her distant relative at Hayath Nagar on the outskirts of the city, police said here Sunday. A lorry driver, J Srinivas, allegedly committed the crime when the minor girl was watching television at his house in Hayath Nagar last afternoon, police said. The minor girl's parents were away when the incident occured, and upon their return noticed their child bleeding. After they enquired, they found that Srinivas had fled after committing the crime. The parents lodged a case at Hayath Nagar police station and manhunt had been launched to nab Srinivas. 
Chamblee police are looking for a man who a 79-year-old woman says sexually assaulted her. On Saturday, the woman reported to police that around 7 a. m. , she was sexually assaulted in her bedroom by an unknown man. She described the man as bald and 25 to 35 years old. According to the police report, Chamblee detectives are following several leads, including physical evidence left behind by the assailant. A neighbor also took a photograph of a possible suspect. The Chamblee Police Department is asking anyone who has information on the incident or can identify the suspect to call 770-986-5005. 
Police are searching for the suspect in a violent assault that left a young New Jersey woman in critical condition. There is heavy police presence on Vanderbilt Street in Somerset, after responding to a home at 6:30 Saturday morning. Police found an 18-year old outside the home. Authorities say she was suffering from a significant head injury and lacerations/stab wounds to her arms and upper torso. After searching her bedroom, investigators found obvious signs of a physical altercation. Eyewitness News is told the teen was home alone during the assault, but somehow managed to stagger to a neighbor's house for help. As surgeons struggle to try to save her life, investigators are left wondering who would do something like this. So far, the only clue police have is that the family's vehicle is now missing, and may have been stolen after the attack. They are looking for a 2009 black four-door Mazda with New Jersey license plate: YHX-85W. Detectives say the driver may be armed and dangerous, which leaves residents of the neighborhood extremely nervous. 
Police are hunting a man who indecently assaulted two girls in Capalaba after breaking into a house on Sunday night. Detectives believe the man entered the Dale Street house at 7. 45pm and approached a young girl in the lounge room and attempted to remove her clothes. He then reportedly approached a second girl in the room and indecently assaulted her. Police said neither girl suffered physical injuries from the attack. The man is believed to have then fled the home. The alleged offender is described as about 165 centimetres tall, Caucasian with dark hair and aged in his 20s. 
A MAN has been arrested after a teenager was seriously assaulted inside her own home. A man allegedly broke into the flat in Grove Road, Rayleigh, in the early hours of yesterday and attacked the 19 year-old. Police officers arrived at the property shortly after 2. 30am, but the man had already fled the scene on foot. The young woman was treated by paramedics, before being taken to Southend Hospital for further treatment. She has since been discharged. A 28 year-old man was arrested in connection with the assault this morning. The Metropolitan Police discovered him at home in Edmonton, north London, at about 6. 30am, and was transferred to the custody of Essex Police. The suspect will be taken to Southend Police Station for questioning. Following initial enquiries yesterday, officers arrested two men, aged 20 and 22, in Southend on suspicion of assisting an offender. 
Cops are looking for three men who assaulted a man while he was waiting for his food inside a Caribbean restaurant in Far Rockaway. The attack occurred last Saturday, April 19, at Classic Quizine on 713 Beach 20 Street. According to an NYPD release, the victim, a 23-year-old man, had placed an order at around 6:15 p. m. and was waiting for his food when the four suspects entered the restaurant and began to pummel him. One of the suspects beat the victim in the head with a cane, while another threw a chair at him. The victim received cuts but refused treatment at the scene. All the suspects are described as black males between the age of 20-25; one was wearing a long sleeve Nike Air shirt (see photo) while another had a shirt emblazoned with the word "Killer. "Anyone with information in regards to the assault is asked to call the NYPD's Crime Stoppers Hotline at 800-577-TIPS, or by submitting their tips at the Crime Stoppers Website, or texting their tips to 274637(CRIMES) then enter TIP577. All calls are confidential. 
Former lap dancer turned Lincoln lecturer researches strip club cultureMore than a fifth of residents in towns and cities with lap dancing clubs don't know they are there, research by a University of Lincoln academic shows. Lecturer Dr Rachela Colosi, herself a former lap dancer, carried out the research into how clubs were perceived with Professor Phil Hubbard from the University of Kent. Despite the many negative stereotypes of the venues, their research found that more people were concerned with crime, disorder and antisocial behaviour from pubs and clubs than with problems from lap dancing clubs. Dr Colosi, 36, has had an interest in lap dancing and the stigma attached to it for many years. She took up a job as a dancer when she was a student and continued to dance while researching the industry for her PhD. "It was my personal choice," she said. "I did it for the enjoyment. It was money too but I did it for a combination of factors. I was interested in exploring the culture of lap dancing and the relationships between the dancers. "We looked at four different case studies to gauge how the public felt about clubs. Lap dancing clubs were not seen as the greatest source of nuisance. They are not regarded as a significant source of nuisance by the majority, but a significant minority feel such clubs are inappropriate because they promote sexism. 
The headlines have been teeming recently with stories of teachers having illicit affairs with underage students entrusted in their care. What they all have in common is that these rendezvous are shrouded in secrecy. Not so in the case of Stovall Middle School teacher Felicia Smith, 42, who gave a whole new meaning to hands on learning. On Thursday Smith was charged with improper relationship with a student after giving a 15-year-old boy a lap dance in front of the whole class. 
Smith put a chair in the front of the classroom on February 26 and the students urged the birthday boy to go up front and have a seat. Music started playing and Smith proceeded to give the child a full body lap dance. Someone filmed the entire performance, which lasted almost four minutes, and the video is now in the custody of the Aldine (Texas) Police Department. According to authorities, Smith sat down on the student’s lap and began grinding. She then stood up and danced for him while rubbing all over his body. As the other students cheered her on, Smith knelt before the young man and placed her face between his legs. After the music ended Smith embraced the student and said, “I love you baby. Happy Birthday. ”
Steps to tighten the laws on buying sex in Nordic countries are winning adherents around Europe, but feeback from the sex workers they were drawn up to protect suggests that the regulations may be making their work more dangerous. The jury is still out on the efficacy of the new laws, which depending on the country involved were drawn up to safeguard women deemed to be in vulnerable positions, stop violence against women and strengthen human rights and gender equality. But interviews with charities, women’s rights activists and prostitutes themselves indicate that for many sex workers, the effect of the law has not been positive. “The law is pushing prostitution more underground,” said Jaana Kauppinen, who heads a charity that helps sex workers in Helsinki and Tampere in Finland. “It makes the women more vulnerable and increases the risk of violence. ” Sweden was the first to introduce a ban on buying sex in 1999, following a campaign started by women’s rights advocates who believed that buying someone’s body for sex was morally wrong. In the final proposal to criminalise the buying and not selling of sex, Stockholm focused on the vulnerability of the women and their right to “peace” and protection
A former Ku Klux Klan 'Grand Dragon', who has been charged with killing three people outside two Kansas Jewish centers earlier this month, is revealed to have been arrested in the 1980s for having sex with a man in his car. Frazier Glenn Miller, who is also known as Frazier Glenn Cross, is accused of killing a doctor, his teenage grandson and a mother of three outside the community center and the nearby Village Shalom senior living center on April 13. Miller, now 73, was caught by Raleigh, N. C. police in the backseat of a car engaged in a sex act with a black male prostitute who was dressed as a woman, according to an ABC News report. The 'avowed white supremacist, anti-Semite, anti-homosexual' was the founder of the Carolina Knights of the Ku Klux Klan and acted as its 'Grand Dragon' (the highest-ranking Klansman in a given state) in the 1980s until he was arrested and convicted of running an illegal paramilitary organization. According to the Southern Poverty Law Center, Miller was the subject of a nationwide manhunt in 1987 for violating the terms of his bond; he was later found in a mobile home in rural Missouri, surrounded by grenades, automatic weapons, and thousands of rounds of ammunition. Douglas McCullough, who in 1987 prosecuted Miller on charges of possessing hand grenades and mailing a threatening communication, told The Kansas City Star, 'It was a male prostitute in a vehicle, and it was a Raleigh Police Department incident report. 'McCullough, who is now a judge on the North Carolina Court of Appeals, added that the charges were 'salacious' and that the male prostitute was known to police. Miller was not charged in connection with the prostitution arrest and no public record of the incident could be located. But in a recorded phone call with the Southern Poverty Law, he claimed that he had lured the prostitute to the meeting with the intention of beating him, ABC News reported. 
The former Ku Klux Klan leader who is charged with killing three people at Jewish community sites in Kansas City has previously been arrested for soliciting a male prostitute who was black. The new revelation about Frazier Glenn Cross' past shows how the anti-Semitic gunman had a criminal history that runs against the hate-filled speech that he has spewed for decades. ABC reports that Frazier Glenn Cross was originally named Frazier Glenn Miller, rising through the ranks of the anti-Semitic and racist groups, founding the Carolina Knights of the KKK and the paramilitary White Patriot Party. 
Russell Brand has opened his heart to the TV cameras about his first major sexual experience – with a Filipino prostitute. The flamboyant comedian can be seen in forthcoming Channel 4 documentary Love for Sale explaining to presenter Rupert Everett about the times he paid for sex when he was a teenager. Describing his use of prostitutes as part of his “dark” obsessions at a period in his life when he was mired in drug addiction, Brand recalled his early experiences with mixed emotions. On the one hand, he describes the time when he was 16 and slept with a Filipino prostitute as a “magical experience". “I loved her. She was beautiful, elegant and sweet and . . . and to be with a beautiful Filipino woman was magical. ”However, the star of the movies Arthur and Forgetting Sarah Marshall, also warns viewers to be wary of following his example. “I’m not a libertine” he says, addressing the subject of men using prostitutes with a warning to viewers to “be careful with your soul and be careful with yourself”. Speaking at last night’s question-and-answer session following the screening of the programme which examines people who sell and buy sex, Everett said that he felt the response was typical of Brand: “It was very unexpected. [Brand] is the king of the about-turn. He can move from heroin to All Bran in one go. ”Everett said he made the two Love for Sale films partly because he was interested in the subject following the death of his friend, a female French prostitute in Paris 20 years ago. Another motivation was his desire to campaign against current moves by some UK MPs to clamp down on the sex trade. He told last night’s audience at the Soho Sanctum Hotel that lawmakers were using the subject to deflect from their own shortcomings: “We are living in a very weird world. You think, politicians and police are presenting us with this Puritan view because they have shown themselves to be very corrupt. "He added that he believed attempts to curb prostitution would fail. Why in this country are we still living out of the shadow of the Reformation? Why do they think sex is for procreation? They must see sex is also for pleasure. "Everett, whose films include My Best Friend's Wedding and An Ideal Husband, added that the character of Soho was also changing for the worse as large swathes of it was being bought up by wealthy Chinese and Russian people and the traditional sex industry was under threat from property redevelopment. “We should have a say as Londoners,” he said. “I’m desperate Soho doesn’t lose all the rough edges it has. ”
II — A military jury has recommended that a Marine who killed a prostitute in his Hawaii hotel room serve a life sentence and be dishonorably discharged. The jury’s recommendation on Saturday will be reviewed by the Marines commander and the court-martial’s convening authority, who will either agree with the sentence or reduce the penalty. Marine Master Sgt. Nathaniel Cosby was convicted Thursday of murder, obstruction of justice and patronizing a prostitute. He admitted to killing Ivanice “Ivy” Harris in May last year, but his lawyers argued it was in self-defense. Cosby was in Hawaii on a temporary assignment from Japan at the time of the killing. He remains in confinement at the brig on Ford Island. Harris’ family said they were grateful to investigators and prosecutors for bringing Cosby to justice. 
During last year’s Twilight series, Investigative Reporter AASMA DAY spoke to a nursing assistant who admitted she had worked as a prostitute for eight months for extra cash. One year on, we find out that the mum of two suffered a huge setback after being lured back into the seedy world of selling her body. Many people harbour the stereotype that women who enter the world of prostitution do it to feed a heroin or drink habit. However, Amy*, 30, who lives in Preston, was not your typical prostitute as she was married with two children, lived in a nice home and had a respectable job as a nursing assistant at the Royal Preston Hospital. But she became tempted by prostitution as a way of making extra cash to give her family a better life. my socialised with a couple of friends who earned money as sex workers in Blackpool and they encouraged her to join them. She finally caved to the pressure at the thought of being able to buy luxuries for her family. Amy explains: “I just felt I did not earn enough. My husband has a chronic condition so he cannot work so I was the only breadwinner. I just wanted a better life for my children and to be able to buy them treats and quality items instead of always having to say no or buy the cheapest of the cheap. ”As a nursing assistant, Amy was earning just under £200 a week, but by selling her body two or three times a week, she was supplementing her income by £250 to £300 extra a week. Amy recalls that the first time she prostituted herself, she was terrified as she went to a hotel with a businessman in his late 30s. Afterwards, she was wracked with guilt for cheating on her husband and tried to blank the incident from her memory. However, Amy was soon going to Blackpool a few times a week, sleeping with up to two men a night. In the course of eight months, Amy estimates she slept with around 200 men. She explains: “It started getting addictive because it felt like easy money. “The extra cash made life so much easier and I loved being able to buy my children things. ”It all came to an abrupt end after her husband became suspicious about where the extra cash came from. She tried to hide her secret by telling her husband she had borrowed the money, but eventually she blurted out the truth. Amy’s husband was furious and left the family home for a while. Amy sank into depression. She explains: “In my mind, I had kept my home life and my work as a nursing assistant completely separate from what I was doing in Blackpool. “But after my husband found out, I felt heartbroken, traumatised and bad and dirty. ”y eventually confided in a colleague who put her in touch with a counsellor and Amy’s husband returned to the marital home and the couple worked hard to save their marriage. When we last spoke to Amy, she told us she deeply regretted her time as a prostitute and would never be tempted to return to that lifestyle. However, one year on, we discover that Amy returned to prostitution for a short time after plunging into debt. But to get through the ordeal of sleeping with men for cash, Amy turned to cocaine and soon developed an addiction. Her drug habit led to her getting even more into debt and, when her husband found out she was back on the streets, it led to domestic strife. Amy, who is no longer working as a nursing assistant, is now having help for her drug habit and has been clean for two months. She is also having counselling to come to terms with the damage she has done to her self-worth by turning to prostitution. Amy says: “The easy money you can make by selling your body does not pay the price for the emotional and physical consequence that follows the act. “The sheer devastation of being paid for sex again messed with my head completely. “I had just got into debt and thought if I did it again a couple of times, it would be enough to get me out of debt. “I am now again trying to re-build my life and save my marriage but it is very difficult. “Prostitution is terrible as it seems so easy to do but the damage is ever lasting. ”* Amy’s name has been changed to protect her identity
A former student of paedophile William James Vahey has said she believes three of her classmates killed themselves after being abused by the teacher. Alicia, who was taught by Vahey during the 1980s in Saudi Arabia, said she heard rumours about the teacher years after she left school. "The rumours were, later on, when we would have reunions . . . that certain people in my circle, there were three suicides of very popular students of his that were molested by him," she said. "That was the rumour, and I cannot believe that this guy was still teaching students. "That was the rumour: that Bill Vahey molested children and that ultimately three children had committed suicide as a result. "Asked to clarify the rumour further, Alicia said: "It's not a rumour. I mean, I know these people. "
An “unacceptable” legal loophole which allows paedophiles legally to download manuals on how to groom children will be outlawed, David Cameron has pledged. Measures to be proposed in June’s Queen’s Speech will see paedophiles treated in the same way as terrorists. People who download manuals on how to groom their victims will face the same sanctions as terrorists who download guides to making bombs. While it is an offence to possess indecent images of children, there is no such offence for possessing manuals that give advice on how to groom children sexually. Mr Cameron said: “It’s completely unacceptable that there’s a loophole in the law which allows paedophiles to write and distribute these disgusting documents. “I want to ensure we do everything we can to protect children — and that's why I’m making them illegal. ”Paedophiles have for years shared guides which give tips on identifying and grooming, and evading caputure but the internet has meant they are now more easily distributed among abusers. Number 10 has decided to take action after spies from GCHQ, the Government’s listening post, and experts from the National Crime Agency found examples of the manuals in obscure parts of the internet. The new law will be in force by the time of the general election next year. It is currently an offence under section 62 of the Coroners and Justice Act 2009 to possess illegal images of children. The Obscene Publications Act 1959 can also be used to prosecute people publishing paedophile manuals. But the law does not specifically cover the possession of written child abuse training manuals of the kind found during the NCA’s investigations. 
The retired social services boss told detectives how the politician suspected of child abuse would spend evenings with the convicted paedophile who ran the home. The witness said the man would arrive alone and then join Michael Carroll in an annex where the beast is known to have attacked a string of youngsters. She said Carroll and the public figure would take young boys to the top-floor flat in Angell Road children’s home in Brixton, South London. She said: “John would sometimes come down and select one of the boys to go up to the flat. He would say, ‘Uncle John wants to talk to you’ and the child would go up holding his hand. ”Official documents reveal one of Carroll’s alleged victims told detectives 16 years ago that a group of paedophiles attacked children in the flat. Carroll was the only person convicted of abuse linked to the home, despite a number of children claiming they were attacked by other men there. The witness accused Scotland Yard of covering up the alleged abuse after she originally gave evidence to then-detective inspector Clive Driscoll in 1998. She said the Metropolitan Police failed to follow up on her evidence after they removed Mr Driscoll from the investigation. Detectives from the Met’s Child Abuse Investigation Command have now taken statements from her, after she was tracked down during a 16-month Mirror investigation. 
A paedophile teacher who abused children at a leading private school was allowed to hug his children goodbye after his vile acts were exposed. William Vahey, who allegedly targeted around 60 boys, has also been labelled one of the most prolific sex offenders of all time by the FBI. While working at schools around the world, the 64-year-old was said to have held a ‘cookie race’ at bedtime in which children as young as ten were encouraged to eat as many as they could, unaware they had been drugged. Once the pupils passed out, some were assaulted. After the teacher embraced the pupils, he was then driven to the airport in a school van, according to The Sun. The revelations did not come as a surprise to a former pupil known as Jonathan, who said there was something 'not right' about Vahey frrom the start. He told The Guardian: 'I had my suspicions from the beginning. There was something a bit off about him. 'Other people would say he was their favourite teacher but I would say there was something not right. 'The schoolboy said Vahey promoted a 'travel club' where he tried to organise trips abroad. Boys would stay in hotel rooms in groups of three or four and Vahey would 'tickle' them before they went to sleep. The extent of his crimes around the world were revealed in an FBI affidavit. The American agency is leading the investigation into the historic abuse claims. Special Agent Shauna Dunlap told Sky News: 'Without a doubt, this is certainly one of the most prolific suspected sexual predators that we've seen, given the numbers of children, potential victims, his position of trust, and so forth. And some of the allegations and the methods that are being alleged that he may have employed while committing these crimes. '
A paedophile from Boston who was discovered with tens of thousands of indecent images of children after being caught trying to photograph a three-year-old girl on Skegness beach has been jailed. Jeffrey Hart, of London Road, appeared at Lincoln Crown Court yesterday after being charged with making and possessing indecent images of children. The 46-year-old was traced by police after an incident on Skegness beach, where a father challenged Hart over taking pictures of his daughter. The parents seized Hart’s phone and he ran off, but officers analysed the phone’s contents and tracked him down. He was arrested last December, had his home searched, and was charged with various offences of making and keeping indecent images of children. However police discovered mobiles and storage devices at his home, and interviewed him again on February 20 this year. Police said he made a number of “candid admissions”, and was charged with the making of and global possession of indecent images of children. He appeared at Lincoln Crown Court on April 25, for sentencing for all charges. The first set of charges referred to Hart having more than 1,136 indecent images of children, ranging from level one to the most serious level five. He was also charged with a Breach of his Sexual Offences Prevention Order and a number of making and distribution of distribution of indecent images of children offences. The second set of charges referred to Hart being found in possession of over 47,000 indecent images of children, again in various levels of seriousness, as well as being charged with a number of offences over making them. Judge Stuart Rafferty jailed Hart, describing him as being in possession of a substantial and staggering number of images, and saw him as possessing a severe danger of committing further offences against children. 
PAEDOPHILES will be handed the same treatment as terrorists under a crackdown on child abuse to be included in the Queen’s Speech. David Cameron said he wanted to close a loophole that allows sexual predators to produce and possess “manuals” giving tips on how to identify victims, groom them, and evade capture. In future, they will face the same kind of sanctions as extremists who download guides to bomb-making. The issue came to light after GCHQ and the National Crime Agency found online examples of the guides in the chaotic part of cyberspace known as the “dark web”. The Prime Minister told the Sunday Times: “It’s completely unacceptable that there is a loophole in the law which allows paedophiles to write and distribute these disgusting documents. “I want to ensure we do everything we can to protect children - and that’s why I am making them illegal. ”
Bravely waiving his right to anonymity, one of John Leslie Duncan’s victims has told how the sickening abuse has blighted his life. Julian Foster was just 10 years old when he moved into the Barnardo’s home at Shotley Bridge, Consett, where Duncan was working. The sick pervert began abusing Mr Foster while bathing him, threatening that he’d be moved to a horrible home if he told anyone. Duncan then started visiting the terrified youngster in his bedroom, repeatedly subjecting him to brutal and painful sex attacks. Like all victims of sexual offences, Mr Foster had a right to lifelong anonymity but chose to waive it in order to speak about his ordeal and encourage other victims of abuse to come forward. Speaking outside court after watching Duncan be jailed for 15 years, he told how reporting what had happened to him was the best thing he has ever done. The 42-year-old father-of-three said: “It feels good to stand up to him, it’s been a weight off my shoulders. “Giving evidence was so difficult, having to re-tell publicly what had happened, which had been a massive secret for all these years. “I was ashamed but coming forward was the best thing I’ve ever done, it’s a great relief. 
Liberal MP Sir Cyril Smith was part of a high-level paedophile ring operating at Westminster in the 1970s, a Labour MP has claimed. Simon Danczuk alleges in a new book Sir Cyril used his influence to escape prosecution for sexually abusing boys. He told BBC Radio 4's Today programme the MP was part of an "informal" network of sex abusers. And he claimed police were pressured by the authorities to drop investigations into his activities. "Had he been prosecuted, then the house of cards would have fallen, in terms of that paedophile network, and it could have brought the government down," the Labour MP told Today. He also claimed child abuse allegations against Sir Cyril were widely known at the time and were even raised in public, at a Liberal party conference. Sir Cyril's family have said they are "saddened" by Mr Danczuk's allegations "made so long after Sir Cyril Smith's death and at a time he is no longer able to defend himself". "Sir Cyril always denied accusations made against him while he was living," they added in a statement issued when extracts from Mr Danczuk's book were serialised in the Daily Mail. Mr Danczuk, MP for Sir Cyril's former constituency Rochdale, alleges police received at least 144 complaints about the late Liberal MP but MI5 and Special Branch put pressure on police officers to drop investigations into the alleged abuse. "When he was initially arrested, he used the local power that he had, in the 60s, to be able to convince people that he shouldn't be prosecuted," he told the Today programme. "But once he became a member of Parliament in 1972, I think he joined an, obviously informal, network of paedophiles that existed in and around Westminster. "Asked how he could say that with certainty, Mr Danczuk said Sir Cyril had been identified as attending Elm Guest House in south-west London, adding: "[This is] where it is alleged other significant paedophiles attended. "
A paedophile had sex with a daughter he had put up for adoption after she tracked him down on Facebook. Eleanor Jackson, 23, was taken from her biological father Frank Humphreys, 51, when she was just 17 months old, a court heard. But when she traced him as an adult the pair began a sexual relationship. Humphreys and his daughter both pleaded guilty to incestHumphreys, of Cleator Moor, Cumbria, was jailed at Carlisle Crown Court for 21 months. The court heard that the pair had been estranged for a number of years since Jackson was put up for adoption when she was just 17-months-old. However, Tim Brennand, prosecuting, said she had tracked Humphreys down through Facebook in 2010 and she - together with her twin sister - went to live with him. He said that officials became suspicious when the pair were observed acting in a manner which was not just 'over familiar' but in an 'overtly sexualised manner'. 'Their relationship was overt and sexual and were involved with each other in a full physical relationship,' he added. 
A 16-year-old Connecticut girl killed at her high school last week in an attack police say was carried out by a classmate died of multiple stab wounds to her face and torso, according to an autopsy report released Sunday. Maren Sanchez's death has officially been ruled a homicide, a spokeswoman with Connecticut's Office of the Chief Medical Examiner added. anchez, 16, was killed on Friday in a stairwell at Jonathan Law High School in Milford, Connecticut by a classmate who may have been upset that she rebuffed his invitation to the prom, police said. The prom was postponed after the incident. A 16-year-old high school junior has been charged as a juvenile with her murder and was undergoing a psychiatric evaluation, his attorney said. The teen suspect was likely to be tried as an adult, according to lawyer Edward Gavin. He said the teen's family was "devastated" over the incident and Sanchez's death. 
HARTFORD, Conn. (CBSNewYork/AP) – The Connecticut teenager killed on the day of her junior prom died of stab wounds to her torso and neck, the chief medical examiner said Sunday. A fellow classmate has been charged with murder as a juvenile in the stabbing death of 16-year-old Maren Sanchez in the hallway of Jonathan Law High School in Milford, Conn. His name was not released because of juvenile offender laws. The teen’s lawyer said he is under psychological evaluation and will not appear at his arraignment in New Haven on Monday, WCBS 880 Connecticut Bureau Chief Fran Schneidau reported. 
DUBLIN (CBS SF) — A San Jose woman arrested for the fatal stabbing of her 7-month-old baby Saturday in a rural area near Livermore has been identified as Ashley Newton, according to East Bay Regional Park District Police. Newton, 23, was booked in the Santa Rita Jail, Alameda County’s jail in Dublin, on suspicion of murder and is being without bail, park police said Sunday. Homicide investigators are still not clear about a motive in the slaying of the infant, according to park police. Police received a call reporting a vehicle accident at about 10:30 a. m. Saturday on Arroyo Road near the Wente Vineyards, park police said. Officers from the EBRPD Police and the California Highway Patrol responded to the scene and found a badly damaged 2013 Honda sedan abandoned on the roadway near the EBRPD Camp Arroyo facility. The car’s engine was running and there was an empty child car seat inside, park police said. Officers searched the area, including Arroyo Park, Lake Del Valle Dam, Wente Vineyards and the Veteran’s Administration Hospital, but could not locate the driver. At about 12:30 p. m. , as officers were preparing to the tow vehicle away, believing it to be a hit an run collision, a woman carrying a baby approached them, accoding to park police. Officers contacted the woman and noticed the baby was non-responsive, police said. The officers attempted to resuscitate the baby, but were unsuccessful. The baby, who suffered multiple stab wounds, was declared deceased by paramedics at the scene, park police said. According to park police, the woman told the officers she had stabbed the baby and was subsequently arrested. Alameda County Sheriff’s Office Crime Lab personnel responded to the scene to assist in the investigation. A knife, believed to be the weapon in the homicide, was found at the scene, park police said. The mother was found suffering from an apparent self-inflicted stab wound to her wrist and was treated at a nearby hospital before being released into police custody. 
POLICE have released the name of the 52-year-old man who died after being stabbed in Selsdon Park Road, Selsdon on Thursday. A spokesman for the Met said this afternoon (Saturday) they believe the victim to be Andrew David Else of Croydon, although he said formal identification had yet to take place. He added no further information about Mr Else was being released at this stage. Earlier today Ephraim Norman, 23, of Thornton Heath appeared at Camberwell Green Magistrates court charged with murder. He was remanded in custody to appear at the Old Bailey on Tuesday. Norman was arrested at the scene in Selsdon Park Road and police have said they are not actively seeking anyone else in connection with the incident. Officers have also said there is nothing to suggest the victim and the suspect knew each other. Police were called to the scene at around 10. 30pm on Thursday after the reports of a stabbing and the incident was also attended by the London Ambulance Service and the Air Ambulance. Mr Else, was pronounced dead at the scene, despite efforts by paramedics to revive him. A post mortem which took place yesterday (Friday) revealed Mr Else had died from multiple stab wounds. The Homicide and Major Crime Command is investigating and an incident room has opened under Detective Chief Inspector Graeme Gwyn. A 50-year-old woman who lives opposite the scene told the Advertiser: "They [the paramedics] worked on him for ages. "I watched out of my bedroom window and it was really shocking. "
The Connecticut chief medical examiner says the 16-year-old girl fatally stabbed in a hallway of her high school died of wounds to her torso and neck. The medical examiner's office said Sunday that Maren Sanchez's death was a homicide. A 16-year-old classmate is charged with murder as a juvenile in Friday's stabbing at Jonathan Law High School in Milford. Police didn't release the suspect's name, but people who saw him taken into custody identified him as a friend of Sanchez's. Police are investigating whether Sanchez was killed because she turned down an invitation to be his date to prom. The suspect's attorney says he is being held in a hospital under psychiatric evaluation. His arraignment is scheduled for Monday, but his lawyer says the boy won't attend. 
A teenager tackled by a vice principal refused to drop the knives he'd used to stab 21 at his Pittsburgh-area high school, saying, "My work is not done, I have more people to kill," according to a criminal complaint released Friday. While some underwent surgery, none of the 20 fellow students and one adult stabbed died. Two victims -- one in critical but stable condition, the other in fair condition -- were still at Forbes Regional Hospital in Monroeville, Pennsylvania, on Friday, hospital spokesman Jesse Miller said. Their alleged attacker -- 16-year-old Alex Hribal -- was eventually disarmed, handcuffed and taken into custody. Stabbings at Pennsylvania high school Stabbings at Pennsylvania high school20 hurt in school stabbing rampage Student recounts moment he was stabbedOn Friday, Westmoreland County District Attorney John Peck told CNN that Hribal is charged with 21 counts of attempted homicide, in addition to 21 counts of aggravated assault and having a weapon on school property. Hribal was denied bond after the new charges were filed, Murrysville police Sgt. Charles Tappe said. Hribal remains in Westmoreland County's juvenile detention center, even though he has been charged as an adult. The teenager stands accused of rampaging through the halls of Franklin Regional Senior High School early on the morning of April 9, using a pair of 8-inch kitchen knives to slash those in his path. His parents and classmates insisted afterward that they didn't see the horror coming, with lawyer Patrick Thomassey describing him as a well-liked and "typical young kid" who had "never been been in trouble. "Who is Alex Hribal?Authorities looking through his locker found "a document" -- dated April 6, three days before the mass stabbing -- signaling Hribal's intentions to kill, according to the criminal complaint. One part of it read: "I can't wait to see the priceless and helpless looks on the faces of the students of one of the 'best schools in Pennsylvania' realize their previous lives are going to be taken by the only one among them that isn't a plebeian. "Franklin Regional Senior High indeed has a strong academic reputation. According to the Pennsylvania Department of Education, its students' average SAT scores for 2013 was 1603. The school is located in the middle-class enclave of Murrysville, a community of about 20,000 people located roughly 20 miles east of Pittsburgh. In less than five minutes, the scene at the school transformed from a regular morning to sheer terror, as students bled, screamed and -- in a few notable cases -- rallied to help one another. 
A teenager is to appear in court today charged over a stabbing in Birmingham which left the victim fighting for life. The 17-year-old will appear at Birmingham Magistrates Court this morning (Monday) accused of causing grievous bodily harm. Police have named the victim as local man Kurt Homer, 24, who suffered knife injuries in Slade Road, Erdington, last Monday night (April 14). His devastated family were by his bedside at the weekend and have urged witnesses to come forward. Detectives are keen to speak to two young women known to have been at the scene, near to St Thomas Road, as well as a female nurse who gave first aid to Mr Homer. Detective Inspector Harry Harrison, from Force CID, said: “Mr Homer is still critically ill in hospital having sustained serious knife injuries. “We’re still piecing together the events of last Monday evening and we know there are crucial witnesses out there who’ve not yet spoken to us. “I want to appeal directly to those people to come forward. This is a serious investigation and it’s vital we identify everyone who was in the area at the time. ”In a statement, Mr Homer’s family said: “We have been left devastated by these events and remain at Kurt’s bedside. "If anyone has any information, please come forward and help the police with their investigation. ”
A PROSTITUTE savagely beaten and raped by a client says a police clampdown is putting more working girls at risk. Sarah, from Edinburgh, was working in a flat in Perth when serial rapist Graeme Bell attacked her after arriving for a pre–booked appointment. She has told of her safety fears for sex workers who have been forced to walk the streets or work in a flat alone. Sarah, who wants to campaign for sex workers' rights, said she feels angry that girls working in a flat with others risk being accused of running brothels. As the law stands, if there is more than one prostitute working in a property, it is defined as a brothel. At the High Court in Perth on April 8, drug addict Bell, 32, was found guilty of a string of violent sexual assaults against three sex workers. He was caught when investigators realised Bell had booked his session with Sarah using a mobile phone number he had previously used to call the police. Sarah, who has worked in the sex trade for four years, told how the situation is more dangerous since Edinburgh Council stripped the city's saunas of their licences. 
A star of a reality trucking show has been charged with kidnapping a Las Vegas prostitute and threatening to kill her. Tim Zickuhr now faces three felony charges after threatening and attacking a prostitute who went by the name 'Snow White'. His mugshot, which was taken in December immediately following the arrest but only released on Tuesday, shows that the 40-year-old has bruises or dirt all over the sides of his face. TMZ reports that he attacked the unidentified prostitute after accusing the woman of taking too much money out of his debit account after he gave her his ATM card to pay for an evening with her. Zickuhr joined the History Channel show in its second season, which filmed in 2011, and was sent to drive cargo across some of the scariest roads in Bolivia. The show went off the air after that season and he has since returned to the United States- and was in Las Vegas on the night of December 18 when he had a tryst with the prostitute. TMZ reports that the pair met that night and she claims that he gave her his ATM card so that she could withdraw an undisclosed amount for her payment. 
Officials say two women face prostitution charges after an incident Saturday in southwest Houston. Houston police said a 28-year-old woman from Freeport came to Houston with a friend. Instead, the victim's friend took her to the Plainfield Inn at 9638 Plainfield Street. 
The creator of Peppr, available in Germany where prostitution is legal and where the sex industry is worth about $21 billion a year, thinks letting prospective clients and prostitutes create and be matched by digital profiles will "revolutionize the image of sex work"The new app, Peppr, is similar to a dating site, but it’s for connecting prostitutes to clients. An Unhappy Customer Sues Prostitute for Failing to Complete a Sex SessionHawaii Debates Law Allowing Cops to Have Sex with ProstitutesMen Charged With Toppling Ancient Rock Formation Avoid Jail Time Huffington PostHere's An Updated Tally Of All The People Who Have Ever Died From A Marijuana Overdose Huffington PostWatch Lupita Nyong'o's Dream Meeting With Her Inspiration PeopleIn 2002, Germany legalized prostitution, and the industry there has expanded dramatically since then. Some estimates put the number of prostitutes in Germany at about 400,000, many of whom are foreign nationals from economically stressed parts of Europe like Bulgaria and Romania. According to the Telegraph, the country’s sex industry is worth $21 billion a year, and several 12-story megabrothels have opened. Two years after prostitution became legal, the industry was thought to be worth $8. 3 billion. 
A 23-year-old San Jose woman was arrested for the fatal stabbing of her 7-month-old baby in a rural area near Livermore on Saturday, according to East Bay Regional Park District Police. The East Bay Regional Park District Police Department identified the homicide suspect as Ashley Newston, 23 of San Jose. She was booked into Santa Rita Jail on the charge of murder and is being held without bond. Investigators are unclear as to the motive and are continuing their interviews with family and friends. Police received a call reporting a vehicle accident at about 10:30 a. m. Saturday on Arroyo Road near the Wente Vineyards, park police said. Officers from the EBRPD Police and the California Highway Patrol responded to the scene and found a badly damaged 2013 Honda sedan abandoned on the roadway near the EBRPD Camp Arroyo facility. The car's engine was running and there was an empty child car seat inside, park police said. Officers searched the area, including Arroyo Park, Lake Del Valle Dam, Wente Vineyards and the Veteran's Administration Hospital, but could not locate the driver. 
A former Concord youth pastor who spent years overseas after indecent liberties charges were filed against him has been indicted by a grand jury. Robert Bradley Price was indicted on April 14 on three counts of taking indecent liberties with a child. He has been out on bond since October. Price is accused of committing sexual acts upon the bodies of two males who were less than 16 years old at the time of the acts, according to arrest warrants. One of the indictments stems from an out-of-county case. The Cabarrus charges stem from incidents that allegedly occurred in 2009 and 2011 and involve two alleged victims, a Concord police official said in October. An alleged Mecklenburg County victim accused Price of molesting him over a period of several years, according to a civil complaint filed in 2011. The complaint alleges Price became close to the victim and eventually began molesting him in Price’s car, and in home and church buildings -- including the Youth Shack at King’s Way Baptist Church in Concord, where Price was a youth pastor. The abuse allegedly continued over a period of three years in the early 2000s, until the boy turned 16. In 2011, the victim reported the alleged abuse to the Charlotte-Mecklenburg Police. About the same time, Price left the country for a mission trip to Nicaragua and did not return until October. He was arrested at Charlotte-Douglas International Airport when he arrived on Oct. 14. 
A Gulf War veteran was caught with indecent images of children after his wife took his DVDs to a charity shop. Mark Rooks, of Louth, Lincolnshire, admitted possessing thousands of sexually explicit pictures of children, including some of the most extreme. He was jailed for eight months, made to sign the sex offenders register, given a sexual offences prevention order and ordered to forfeit computing equipment. The judge told Rooks, 53, the images were "horrific". Rooks' hoard of indecent pictures was found in 2012 when his unsuspecting wife took a collection of his DVDs to a Lincoln charity shop. 
IAN Ball was an accomplished musician who gave recitals at Bristol Cathedral. But behind the scenes the organist sexually abused a young boy, even kissing and embracing him in the cathedral's loft, a court heard. When the Jimmy Savile inquiry prompted the victim, now an adult, to complain to police, Ball was found to have 84 indecent photographs of girls aged between ten and 13 on his computer when it was searched. Ball, 46, formerly of Bristol but now living in Worcester, pleaded guilty to four indecent assaults on a boy aged 14. He also pleaded guilty to seven charges of downloading indecent photographs of children. Jailing him for two-and-a-half years yesterday, Judge Michael Roach told him: "What you did not only blighted the remainder of his adolescent years but it led to a blight of his adult years too. "The judge handed Ball a five year Sexual Offences Prevention Order, banning him from unchecked internet use and contact with youngsters aged under 16. He was told to register as a sex offender indefinitely. Kenneth Bell, prosecuting, said the boy went to Ball for organ lessons. single charge of indecent assault against a woman, aged over 16, in January 1995. 
Mr Travis, 68, entered the plea at Westminster Magistrates' Court in central London. It comes after he was cleared of 12 counts of indecent assault in February. He was told to appear for a further hearing at Southwark Crown Court on 8 May. The Crown Prosecution Service said last month it had authorised police to charge him with the alleged offence. He faces a retrial on two outstanding charges. Dressed in a blazer, white shirt and black trousers, Mr Travis, who appeared under his real name David Griffin, was asked to enter his plea and answered: "Not guilty. "
Police monitoring the computer of a Cheshunt man convicted of possessing indecent images of children discovered he had not mended his ways. Telecoms expert Kevin Brown, 50, had received treatment in an attempt to rid him of his addiction to child pornography but, after being caught with four more images, a judge yesterday (Fri) said he had no alternative but to lock him up. Prosecutor David Chrimes told St Albans crown court that in 2011 Brown was given a seven-year sexual offences prevention order after being convicted of 11 counts of possessing indecent images of children. He breached that order in November 2013 and he was banned from looking at pornography involving anyone aged under 21. Software installed on his computer recorded the fact that at the beginning of this year he had accessed images of younger people. Four of those involved girls aged 14 or 15. 
A Dutch-born engineer is to face a crown court trial accused of possessing and making indecent images of children. Vincent Tabak, 36, is due to stand trial on 8 September at Bristol crown court accused of four charges of possessing an indecent photograph/pseudo-photograph of a child and two charges of making an indecent photograph/pseudo-photograph of a child. Tabak, formerly of Bristol, was charged following the discovery of indecent images of children, which were allegedly found on his computer more than two years ago following a separate police investigation. The possession charges are said to have been committed between 1 January 2009 and 5 January 2011 and relate to material allegedly recovered from a laptop. The making indecent photograph charges relate to images allegedly found on two external hard drives in Bath and Bristol on 23 April and 29 July 2009 respectively. Tabak appeared on video link on Wednesday during a pre-trial hearing before Judge Neil Ford QC, the recorder of Bristol. The defendant, who sat behind a desk, spoke only to confirm his name and that he could hear proceedings. Tabak did not enter a plea to the charges he faces and the case was adjourned until a further pre-trial hearing on 26 August. 
Police on Friday released a sketch of a man accused of exposing himself to two girls on the Westside this month. About 7:20 p. m. April 8, a man in a white Toyota Prius or similar looking car encountered two girls near Dufour Street and Graham Avenue, said Santa Cruz Deputy Police Chief Steve Clark. The girls, ages 13 and 8, saw the man drive by them and circle back. He rolled down his passenger window to get their attention, and they saw him wearing a gray shirt and nothing else, Clark said. The man pulled near the curb, then looked at the girls as he masturbated in the car, police said. "The girls screamed and ran home," Clark said. The man appeared white and 40 to 50 years old, police said. He had short brown hair, bushy eyebrows and dark eyes. He also was described as having a "large belly, fat thighs and skinny ankles," Clark said. The man's car had a license plate number with an "H" and possibly a "7" in it, police said. 
Transit police are appealing to a woman who witnessed an indecent act on the back of the 99 B-Line bus to come forward. Officers say the woman, described as a blonde, white female aged 30 to 35, was on the bus at about 9 a. m. Sunday, April 20, when the indecent act occurred. The woman advised the bus driver, who pulled over to the side of the road near Guelph Street and opened the door. The suspect got off and headed west on Broadway. Police found the man a short distance away and booked him on a promise to appear on June 4. The man, who is 25 years old, has a previous history of these types of offences and charges are pending. 
A 25-year-old man has been charged with the indecent assault of a seven-year-old girl in a supermarket in Victoria's north. The girl was shopping with her mother at a supermarket in Cobram, on the Victoria-NSW border, when she was indecently assaulted about 10am on Easter Monday. Detectives from Cobram Crime Investigation Unit charged Samuel Boxsel overnight with one count of an indecent act with a child under 16. Boxsel, from the NSW borer town of Barooga, appeared in an out-of-sessions hearing and was remanded to appear in Shepparton Magistrates Court on Wednesday. Victoria Police spokeswoman Julie-Anne Newman said detectives wanted to thank the public for its help finding the man after appeals for assistance appeared in the media. 
A teacher from Cardiff who used a spy camera to film youngsters going to the toilet also downloaded more than 16,000 child abuse images, Newport Crown court has heard. Gareth Williams, 47, admitted 31 charges including nine of voyeurism, 20 of making indecent photos and two of possessing indecent photos. Williams admitted possessing 679 indecent moving images of children of a voyeuristic nature. He appeared via video link from jail. The charges included three he had previously admitted of voyeurism in a house. Williams looked down throughout the hearing as he pleaded guilty 31 times to the charges that were put to him. 
Two Paris policemen were today charged with the rape of a tourist after one admitted having ‘consensual sex’ with her. Both officers were among four arrested last week when a 34-year-old Canadian said she was attacked following a rowdy drinking session. CCTV shows her entering and leaving 36 Quai des Orfevres – the famous headquarters of the city’s judicial police next door to the city’s law courts. 
A 33-year-old doctor was sent to 14-day judicial custody on Sunday on charges of raping his younger sister for over eight years, police said. Rajesh Kumar, a doctor at a hospital here, was arrested on Saturday for raping his younger sister since she was a Class 12 student. He was on Sunday presented before the court of duty magistrate Joginder Singh, who sent him to judicial custody for 14 days, police told IANS. The woman, who is now an information officer at a central government office in Delhi, is now 27. She said in her complaint filed at a police station Manesar Saturday that she lived in trauma all these years but suffered in silence fearing social stigma for her and her family. The family hails from Nainwal village close to the National Security Guard base camp at Manesar, some 20 km from Gurgaon. 
The airport police on Saturday arrested a 19-year-old Satara resident for raping a married woman in Dighi on April 8. The suspect has been identified as Akash Ramesh More, who lives in Satara. More has been charged under section 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal code. Police said that on April 8, More had allegedly raped the 23-year-old woman when she was on her way to take bath in a room adjacent to her house. "The woman informed her relatives about the incident and lodged a complaint on Saturday
A youth has been booked for allegedly raping a minor in Jehangirabad locality. Cops said the woman, Anita allegedly took 14-year-old girl, her neighbour, to house of accused Zeeshan on the pretext of showing her movie on big screen. The woman allegedly left the minor with the youth, who raped her and also prepared a video clip ofthe act. He threatened survior that he will make video clip public, if she told about the incident to anyone. When the survivor told this to her mother, the two went to the house of accused where he reportedly branded them with hot iron rod. Both are on the run. Cops at Jehangirabad police station said the incident took place on April 22, but a case was registered on Saturday after the girl told her mother about the incident. 
The police have arrested a 30 years old man from Shantinagar locality in Bhiwandi in the district for raping his step-daughter. The accused was identified as Babulal Sana Goyal, who lived in a room at a public toilet complex with his family, police said. According to the complaint filed by his wife Bhavana Goyal, he frequently raped his 14 years old step-daughter during the past one year. Based on the complaint, he was arrested last night. Further probe is on. 
A catholic priest is on the run since the police registered a case against him on Friday for raping a nine-year-old girl, who was attending church classes for receiving first Holy Communion. The girl's parents alleged that she was sexually assaulted several times in April and Fr Raju Kokken, 40, Vicar of the St. Pauls Church at Thaikkattussery in Thrissur, shot nude pictures of her in his mobile phone. Following the complaint and after internal inquiry, Thrissur Arch Diocese had ousted the priest from the Church. 
Four French police officers have been arrested after a Canadian woman claimed she was raped at the Paris police headquarters. The alleged attack took place overnight Tuesday-Wednesday after the woman reportedly met the off-duty officers at an Irish pub in the city. French media say the woman, 34, agreed to go with the men to their headquarters, which is widely known by its address - 36, Quai des Orfevres. The woman, who was reportedly in the city during a two-week holiday, registered a criminal complaint several hours after the alleged attack. The officers, who worked for a gang crime unit, can be held for up to 48 hours before they must be brought before a judge or released. France's police inspectorate is also looking into the claims, in parallel with the criminal probe. Interior minister Bernard Cazeneuve has vowed to take "all the necessary measures" if there is substance to the claims. "I want the justice system and the police inspectorate to complete their investigations so that the truth can be established," Mr Cazeneuve said in a speech to police in Marseille. 
A woman who claims ex-broadcaster Stuart Hall repeatedly raped her has told a court she was not a "gold-digger" wanting compensation. The woman sought £20,000 in a civil claim as "a full and final settlement" for the alleged abuse in Hall's BBC dressing room, jurors heard. She said she was giving evidence against Mr Hall at Preston Crown Court because she wanted "justice". Mr Hall, 84, denies 20 charges of rape and indecent assault from 1976 to 1981. The charges involve two girls who had sex with the former It's a Knockout presenter, of Wilmslow, Cheshire, on numerous occasions while under 16. Mr Hall's barrister said that under the law at the time of the alleged offences he would have been charged with unlawful sex with a girl under 16. On Tuesday, Mr Hall admitted one count of indecent assault. 'Dead duck' During cross-examination, Mr Hall's barrister Crispin Aylett QC said to one of Mr Hall's accusers: "That is what you have been after all along. Compensation." The woman, only identified as Girl A, replied: "If I was purely after compensation do you really honestly believe I would have put myself through this yesterday and today, and now knowing that it is all out in the open. "You are making me sound like a bit of a gold-digger. Well there is easier ways of making money." Mr Aylett asked: "Were you advised because the defendant was - on his own admission - a convicted paedophile, he was a dead duck, he would plead guilty and you would get your cash?" She said: "No." The prosecution asked the woman why she had come to court to give evidence. She said: "Because, this is no disrespect to the system, I just feel it was not long enough for what he did. "I felt for those girls because I know and I understand what it's like and I just felt it was an insult to them." "I don't want to be here, I'm not going to lie about that. But I want justice I suppose," the woman added. 'Very vulnerable position' On Wednesday, Girl A told the court she was raped at the BBC studios at Oxford Road and also at BBC premises at Piccadilly, both in Manchester. The witness was asked to explain a remark she made in a statement saying Hall "didn't tie me down and rape me". She replied: "When I think rape, I think somebody whose been attacked, grabbed in an alley. There's different forms of rape. "It's quite a strong word rape, isn't it? Even though I didn't put up a fight, he knew I was in a very, very vulnerable position. He took full advantage of it." Last year, Mr Hall was jailed for 15 months for 14 offences of indecent assault against 13 girls. His sentence was later extended to 30 months, at the Court of Appeal. The trial is expected to last seven days.
A paedophile has been jailed in what Dorset Police has described as the "largest child indecent image case" it has ever investigated. Benjamin Ashman, 37, of Bournemouth, was discovered distributing indecent images of children to fellow paedophiles around the world. He pleaded guilty to 30 counts of possessing, distributing and taking indecent photographs of a child. One of his victims included a four-year-old girl. Ashman was jailed for 18 months at Bournemouth Crown Court on Friday. Dorset Police said he was identified after another force informed its paedophile online investigation team that it had recovered a conversation from a computer between Ashman and another convicted sex offender. Officers spent "hours" analysing "extreme and horrific material of the worst classification of abuse" found on his computer. In a statement, the force added: "This was the largest child indecent image case ever investigated by Dorset Police and required a dedicated team due to the sensitivity and specialised investigative methods used. "Hundreds of explicit and shocking text messages were also recovered on Ashman's mobile phone between himself and another offender along with more images of the UK child."
The Vatican has told the United Nations that the Holy See's powers to prosecute abusive priests do not extend beyond the tiny Vatican City state. "The Holy See has no jurisdiction over every member of the Catholic Church," Archbishop Silvano Tomasi said. The archbishop, who is the papal envoy to the UN, was speaking in Geneva to the UN Committee against Torture. Victims of clerical sex abuse argue that the Catholic Church has failed to protect children and shielded abusers. They also argue that rape and molestation of children come under the terms of the UN Convention against Torture. It is the second time this year that the Vatican is being scrutinised by the United Nations over its record in dealing with child sex abuse by priests. Archbishop Tomasi said the Vatican could only apply the UN convention - which it signed in 2002 - inside Vatican City, which has a resident population of less than 1,000. UN experts challenged that position, alleging it was an attempt to deflect criticism by using excessively legalistic arguments, the BBC's David Willey reports from Rome. The Vatican will give its response on Tuesday. In January the UN Committee for the Rights of the Child (CRC) accused the Vatican of fostering impunity for abusive clergy. Many cases of molestation and rape go back decades and have only come to light recently. Hundreds of predatory priests have been defrocked, but victims' groups say the Vatican was too slow to act and covered up cases for years. In Rome last week a new advisory board set up by Pope Francis met for the first time. It aims to improve best practice worldwide for the protection of minors from abusive priests. The Vatican refused a request from the CRC for data on abuse, on the grounds that it only released such information if requested to do so by another country as part of legal proceedings.
A panel advising Pope Francis has called for Roman Catholic bishops to be held accountable if they fail to report suspected sexual abuse, or fail to protect children from paedophile priests. The new Vatican advisory board said current church laws were out of date.
The Metropolitan Police is investigating allegations of widespread sexual abuse at a prestigious private school in south-west London, dating back to the 1960s. BBC London has learned that around 100 potential victims and witnesses have so far come forward. Eighteen former teachers at St Paul's School and its prep school Colet Court, in Barnes, are currently under investigation.
Sexual abuse allegations relating to St Paul's School in south-west London are being investigated by the Metropolitan Police's paedophile unit, police have said. The Met said "non-recent" allegations were being investigated regarding the independent boys' school in Barnes. Three arrests have been made, the most recent in February. Police said they had been contacted by 100 potential witnesses and victims, in relation to 18 former teachers. The investigation was being handled by a special unit "due to the level of complexity involved", the Met added. Officers are appealing for anyone with information to contact them. On 27 February, a 65-year-old man was arrested on suspicion of sexual assault. He was later released on bail and is due to return to police this month. Last year in September, a 57-year-old man was arrested on suspicion of possession of indecent images. He was later released on bail. In June, a 59-year-old man was arrested on suspicion of sexual grooming of a child. He was taken into custody and later released with no further action.
A British pensioner wanted since the late 1980s over child sex abuse allegations has been arrested in Spain. Colin John Brown, 85, is alleged to have abused children from a London church choir. Police in Malaga said the pensioner was detained in Benalmadena on Monday under a European Arrest Warrant. They said it is claimed Mr Brown was involved in a paedophile ring which operated between 1970 and the late 1980s. Mr Brown is alleged to have picked his victims from a choir and committed a string of sex crimes against them. He was responsible for providing transport for youngsters aged six to 14 at the time of the alleged abuse.
A man from Limavady, County Londonderry, has been jailed for four months after he threatened to put a woman in a coffin. Conor O'Kane, 20, from Scroggy Road in the town admitted making threats to kill and threats to damage property on 13 December. Police received reports from a 16-year-old girl claiming she had received threatening calls from O'Kane. O'Kane also received a restraining order, imposed for two years. The court heard that the girl was told she would be "in a coffin tonight" by O'Kane. He also told her that her "house would be bombed up" and to watch her windows. When he was arrested O'Kane denied making the threats but claimed he had received a message accusing him of being a paedophile. Defence counsel said her client had "flipped" when the paedophile accusation was made. The lawyer said O'Kane did try to apologise to the injured party on social media but that the message had been ignored.
A "significant number" of parents do not want to know if their child was a victim of a convicted paedophile teacher, the Met Police has said. William Vahey, 64, taught at Southbank International School, from 2009 to last year. Since his death last month it has emerged he preyed on dozens of boys. Cdr Graham McNulty said he understood the wishes of families who did not want to know if their child had been abused. "We respect this position and the dilemma that parents face," he said. Vahey, a US citizen, killed himself two days after investigators filed a warrant to search a computer drive belonging to him. It contained pornographic images of boys aged from 10 to 14, who appeared to be drugged and unconscious, the FBI said. Vahey was convicted of a child sex offence in California in 1969 but appears to have failed to have been included in the sex offenders' register. The Met attended a meeting at Southbank International School along with representatives from the NSPCC and parents of former and current pupils. "Our priority at this time is to identify those children who have been abused and work with the NSPCC and other agencies to offer appropriate support to them and their families," Cdr McNulty said. "A significant number of parents have indicated that they do not wish to be informed of any details pertaining to possible offences against their children. "We are therefore currently considering differing options which would allow us to account for the wishes of all parents whilst ensuring we fulfil our responsibilities to support victims of crime." The Met said it had searched Vahey's north London home on 22 April and recovered a laptop and 11 memory sticks. It said it had identified images of at least 60 suspected victims of abuse and would continue to search for others. The investigation is being led by the FBI, which said the photos it found were catalogued with dates and locations that corresponded with overnight trips that Vahey had taken with students since 2008. Vahey taught in various international schools, which has led the FBI to believe his victims are from all over the world. He was confronted about the images by a colleague at the American Nicaraguan School in Managua, Nicaragua, where he had most recently been teaching, and he confessed that he was molested as a child and had preyed on boys all his life, plying them with sleeping pills before abusing them.
A paedophile was caught with tens of thousands of indecent pictures of children after he took a photo of a toddler on a beach.Jeffrey Hart, of Boston, Lincolnshire, was jailed for six years, with a further four years' supervision, for possessing more than 47,000 images. He was arrested when a father spotted him taking a picture of his three-year-old daughter on Skegness beach. The judge said it was a "staggering" number of pictures. Hart was caught taking a picture of the girl in July last year when her father grabbed his mobile phone. Hart ran off but detectives analysed his phone and tracked him down to his London Road home where he was arrested. They found more than 47,000 pictures in every category of seriousness on several devices around his house. He admitted 12 counts of making indecent photographs or pseudo-photographs of children; one of possessing indecent images; one of possessing prohibited images of children; and a breach of a sexual offences prevention order. At Lincoln Crown Court on Friday, Hart was handed the jail term plus the four-year extended licence following release. He was also ordered to sign the sex offenders' register indefinitely and made to forfeit the storage equipment. Judge Stuart Rafferty said it was a staggering number of images and described Hart as posing a "severe danger" to reoffending against children.
Downloading manuals containing guidance about how to groom children for sexual abuse is to become a criminal offence, the government has said. It is unclear how many documents meant to assist paedophiles exist online or how often they are downloaded. But the National Crime Agency has found examples during its investigations, which have included advice on grooming victims and evading capture. The government measure is set to feature in the Queen's Speech. Details of how the law might be changed are yet to be announced, but it is thought ministers will amend the Obscene Publications Act 1959 to close the legal loophole. But the government may put in place measures similar to those that outlaw training manuals which could be used by terrorists, and have led to prison sentences of up two years in some cases. Prime Minister David Cameron told the Sunday Times: "It's completely unacceptable that there is a loophole in the law which allows paedophiles to write and distribute these disgusting documents. "I want to ensure we do everything we can to protect children - and that's why I am making them illegal." The move came as it emerged that a paedophile teacher drugged and abused up to 60 boys as young as 10 at a private school in London. US national William Vahey, 64, who taught history and geography at Southbank International School between 2009 and 2013, committed suicide last month as FBI agents closed in. Shadow home office minister Diana Johnson said it was right that such manuals be banned, but criticised the government for not going "far enough or fast enough" to prevent online child abuse. "The fact that online guides for abusing children are currently legal shows how ill-suited current legislation is for protecting children online," Ms Johnson said. "At present online abuse is increasing while the number of arrests is falling." She said the government should make online abuse a priority for the National Crime Agency, and that it should look at the broader issues of the regulation of dangerous online content. NSPCC chief executive Peter Wanless also said more needed to be done - and quickly - to tackle online child sex offenders. "The government must ensure police have the investigative capacity to infiltrate and disrupt the networks of offenders hidden online, so these disgusting criminals are brought to justice," Mr Wanless said.
Parents at a private school in London where a convicted paedophile is said to have abused children are expected to meet police on Monday. William Vahey, 64, taught students at Southbank International School from 2009 to last year. He was found dead last month. It has since emerged the US citizen preyed on up to 90 boys. The abuse is thought to have taken place at schools he taught at all over the world. The FBI said his victims were drugged and unconscious and some may not know they were abused. Images of students from the school were found on his computer, the school's executive principal has said. Vahey killed himself two days after investigators filed a warrant to search a computer drive belonging to him which contained pornographic images of boys aged from 10 to 14. The school's chair of governors, former Chief Inspector of Schools Sir Chris Woodhead, said there would be a meeting for parents on Monday. He would not say where and when it would take place. "It is being held so parents can express their concerns and have their say," he said. "We expect that police will attend, and staff from Westminster child protection, and the NSPCC. "The main anxiety of parents is predictable, they want information as soon as possible about whether there were images of their children discovered on Vahey's computer." Sir Chris has already described the revelations as the "worst thing that I've ever been involved in in 40 years of education". The investigation is being led by the FBI, which said the photos were catalogued with dates and locations that corresponded with overnight trips that Vahey had taken with students since 2008. He was convicted of a child sex offence in California in 1969 but appears to have failed to have been included in the sex offenders' register, which allowed him to slip through the net and go on to work in several schools. In a letter to parents on Friday, Graham Lacey, executive principal at Southbank, urged any pupils who had experienced anything disturbing to come forward. He wrote: "As a staff we feel upset, angry and betrayed. We can only imagine what you as parents must feel." The letter added details of the checks that were made when Vahey joined the school, including when he was subject to a Criminal Record Bureau (CRB) check, which is standard procedure and revealed nothing untoward.
Four men have been jailed in Bahrain after duping young British boys into sending indecent images of themselves. They were charged with offences which included the sexual assault of children and forcing children by threats and blackmail to perform obscene acts. Investigations began in January 2012 when Surrey Police were told a boy had been contacted by a person claiming to be a 13-year-old girl from Rome. Further inquiries identified 37 victims in Surrey and elsewhere in the UK. The investigation was jointly carried out by Surrey Police's paedophile online investigation team and the National Crime Agency's Child Exploitation and Online Protection (CEOP) command. The first victim was initially contacted via Blackberry Messenger and following conversations online was encouraged to perform sexual acts via a webcam. Officers subsequently discovered that accounts being used by the suspects were being accessed from Bahrain and they were enticing the victims by pretending to be girls sending indecent images of themselves and requesting others in return. The offenders - aged between 19 and 21 at the time - then threatened to post the victims' images on internet sites or send them to friends and family unless more images were sent. The National Crime Agency said that to date, action had been taken to safeguard 249 children who had been targeted, though there were suggestions the offenders had sought to abuse "many others in the UK and around the world". Andy Baker, deputy director of CEOP, said the "online sexual abuse had been harrowing", with multiple time zones meaning there were always children online at any one time. "These offenders used the 'scatter gun' approach to target as many victims as possible, playing the averages in their pursuit of victims," he said. Det Supt Jon Savell, head of public protection at Surrey Police, added that it was likely that a number of girls had also been contacted. He urged anyone who had been targeted or knew someone who might have been targeted to contact specialist NSPCC staff.
A convicted paedophile abused children at a private school in London where he taught, its chair of governors said. William Vahey, 64, taught students at Southbank International School from 2009 to last year. He was found dead last month. It has since emerged that the US national had preyed on up to 90 boys at different schools he worked in around the world. The FBI said his victims were drugged and some may not know they were abused. Vahey killed himself two days after investigators filed a warrant to search a computer belonging to him containing pornographic images of at least 90 boys aged from 10 to 14, who appeared to be drugged and unconscious. Southbank International School's chair of governors, Sir Chris Woodhead, said the matter was the "worst thing that I've ever been involved in in 40 years of education". The former Ofsted chief inspector said the school was working with the FBI to identify which of the children in the images were from the school. The photographs were catalogued with dates and locations that corresponded with overnight field trips that Vahey had taken with students since 2008, but he had led pupils on such outings for his entire career. Vahey was jailed for child sex offences in California in 1969, the FBI said. FBI Special Agent Patrick Fransen said: "I've never seen another case where an individual may have molested this many children over such a long period of time. "I'm concerned that he may have preyed on many other students prior to 2008." Vahey was confronted about the images by a colleague at the American Nicaraguan School in Managua, Nicaragua, where he had most recently been teaching. He said he had been molested as a child and then confessed to preying on boys all his adult life, usually plying them with sleeping pills before abusing them. "Everyone at the school is deeply shocked by what we heard on Tuesday," Sir Chris said. "Our two priorities now are to communicate as much information as we have as quickly as we can, and to help the police as much as we can in what is now an international police inquiry into the activities of this man." Sir Chris said the fact that Vahey was able to teach there and at other schools despite having a conviction for a child sex offence in California in 1969 "beggars belief". But he added that Vahey had an "immaculate record" and had never given any staff at the school cause for concern. "He was a very popular man, both with staff and students," he said. "He has managed to deceive his colleagues in schools all around the world for 30 years." Vahey, who had a home in London as well as in South Carolina, was found dead in Luverne, Minnesota, on 21 March. The Metropolitan Police said it was working with the FBI and NSPCC to establish Vahey's potential offending during his time at Southbank International School. It said it searched a home in north London on Tuesday, at the request of the FBI, where a number of items were seized which are now being examined.
Dorset Police are to delete images of an abuse victim from a paedophile's laptop computer after previously saying the move was "unlawful". The offender, a family member, was jailed in 2013 for nine years after admitting a string of sex offences, including assaulting a child under 13. He had formally requested a laptop and a mobile telephone be handed back. The force said following legal advice it had decided deleting the images was "the right thing to do". Earlier this month, Dorset Police said they could not delete the family pictures as they were not legally classified as indecent or prohibited. As a result, the offender, who is in his 50s but cannot be named to protect the identity of his victim, would have had access to photos of the girl and her family on his release from jail. Det Insp Steve Symms said: "We have been exploring all of the options available to us to refuse the return of the images. "We have decided to delete the images from the laptop and other equipment before returning these items to the prison, to be held until the offender's release. The legislation hasn't changed, however, following legal advice, the force is confident that taking this course of action is the right thing to do." The county's Police and Crime Commissioner, Martin Underhill, set up an e-petition to lobby to change the "fundamental error" in the law. He said: "I am pleased to hear that common sense has prevailed in this case. Both the chief constable and I share the view that victims must be put first." Human Rights organisation Liberty argued that the return of the computer and mobile would breach articles three and eight of the European Convention on Human Rights, which protect against inhuman treatment and invasion of privacy, respectively. In a letter to the police, Liberty had said the prospect of having the photos of the victim in swimwear and leotards returned to the abuser was causing the family "a significant amount of distress". The victim's mother said she was "so relieved" at the decision which had "traumatised" her family. "The retention of these photos would have had a lifelong impact and impeded my children's already difficult road to recovery. "We are so relieved this part of our nightmare is over and that we don't have to go through long and arduous court proceedings," she added. Rosie Brighouse, legal officer for Liberty, said the police had "seen sense" "Yet again the vital protections of our Human Rights Act come to the aid of innocent victims, protecting their dignity and preventing unnecessary suffering," she added.
Liberal MP Sir Cyril Smith was part of a high-level paedophile ring operating at Westminster in the 1970s, a Labour MP has claimed. Simon Danczuk alleges in a new book Sir Cyril used his influence to escape prosecution for sexually abusing boys. He told BBC Radio 4's Today programme the MP was part of an "informal" network of sex abusers. And he claimed police were pressured by the authorities to drop investigations into his activities. "Had he been prosecuted, then the house of cards would have fallen, in terms of that paedophile network, and it could have brought the government down," the Labour MP told Today. He also claimed child abuse allegations against Sir Cyril were widely known at the time and were even raised in public, at a Liberal party conference. Sir Cyril's family have said they are "saddened" by Mr Danczuk's allegations "made so long after Sir Cyril Smith's death and at a time he is no longer able to defend himself". "Sir Cyril always denied accusations made against him while he was living," they added in a statement issued when extracts from Mr Danczuk's book were serialised in the Daily Mail. Mr Danczuk, MP for Sir Cyril's former constituency Rochdale, alleges police received at least 144 complaints about the late Liberal MP but MI5 and Special Branch put pressure on police officers to drop investigations into the alleged abuse. "When he was initially arrested, he used the local power that he had, in the 60s, to be able to convince people that he shouldn't be prosecuted," he told the Today programme. "But once he became a member of Parliament in 1972, I think he joined an, obviously informal, network of paedophiles that existed in and around Westminster." Asked how he could say that with certainty, Mr Danczuk said Sir Cyril had been identified as attending Elm Guest House in south-west London, adding: "[This is] where it is alleged other significant paedophiles attended." The MP later told the BBC News channel: "We are moving to a stage where we require a public inquiry, where people can be called before that inquiry to give evidence on oath. "Cyril was part of this network, but there was a much broader cover-up and what we now need is to start taking that cover up apart and finding out exactly who was in there, and who knew what at the time. "I think it would be quite revealing." In 2012, the Metropolitan Police launched an investigation into allegations of sexual abuse by politicians in the late 1970s and 1980s, after Labour MP Tom Watson raised concerns in the House of Commons about a "powerful paedophile network linked to Parliament and No 10". The investigation, Operation Fernbridge, is centred on the former Elm Guest House in Barnes, the scene of alleged parties involving MPs and other members of the establishment. The Metropolitan Police has confirmed Sir Cyril was among those who visited the premises. The Crown Prosecution Service has said he should have been prosecuted for 1960s abuse in Rochdale. Sir Cyril died in 2010 aged 82. It was alleged he raped boys at the Knowl View residential school and abused boys at Cambridge House Children's Home, a privately-run care home in Rochdale, which closed in 1965. He had a long association with Knowl View, where he was on the management board when he was a councillor. Sir Cyril was originally a Labour councillor in Rochdale and later a Liberal then Liberal Democrat MP for the town from 1972 to 1992. The Daily Mail has repeatedly pressed senior Liberal Democrats over what they knew about his alleged activities. Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg, the current Lib Dem leader, said that when all Lib Dem MPs and peers were asked two years ago whether they had heard of the abuse claims against Sir Cyril "no-one said they did".
A paedophile was able to continue his abuse because social workers failed to remove his two victims, a report said. A serious case review found there were severe flaws in management at Devon County Council and oversight in the authority's social services department. The girls were assaulted over a five-year period by their attacker, a known sex offender who can not be named for legal reasons and was jailed last year. A council source said it was "very sorry" and lessons had been learned. The victims were to a series of attacks, including rape and sexual assault. The report says the abuse might have been prevented if mistakes had not been made in handling the case, senior council sources have told BBC News. One source said the council was "very sorry" for its errors, adding the case had been thoroughly investigated and lessons learned. In May 2013, the council's child protection services were rated inadequate by the regulator Ofsted. In response, the authority set up an independent panel to oversee an improvement in services.
A man has been jailed for 20 years in Morocco for kidnapping and attempting to rape three girls, it is reported. Robert Bill, 59, a former teacher from St Asaph, Denbighshire, was convicted by the court in Tetouan at a hearing attended by his victims, according to a source quoted by the AFP news agency. He was arrested in the port town of Tetouan in June 2013 after residents heard a girl screaming in a car. He was jailed for six years in 2009 for trying to abduct a girl in Flintshire. AFP said Mohammed Benaissa, who heads the Northern Observatory for Human Rights, was at the trial. Mr Benaissa said: "We welcome this ruling, because it protects the children and it sends a warning to paedophiles." Bill, who had denied the charges, has 10 days to appeal the verdict. He was also fined 100,000 dirhams (about £7,350). He was arrested last June at a petrol station in Tetouan in northern Morocco when locals overheard the screams of the six-year-old girl he abducted, surrounded his Spanish-registered car and alerted the police. He was also accused of kidnapping and attempting to rape another two Moroccan girls prior to his arrest - one in Tetouan and one in the nearby town of Chefchaouen. His trial had previously been postponed when the defendant's Moroccan lawyers withdrew from the case and, at the previous hearing in March, one of the victims passed out in court, Mr Benaissa said. The former teacher, who later ran a business as a playground designer, has previously been jailed in the UK for child sex offences and has been described by a judge as a "sexual predator". In March 2009 he was jailed for six years at Caernarfon Crown Court for the attempted abduction of a five year-old girl in Holywell, Flintshire, in 2007. He later appealed and after pleading guilty before a retrial, was then sentenced to a two year prison term at Chester Crown Court in 2010. After leaving prison he travelled to southern Spain, arriving in Morocco in November 2012 from the town of Ceuta, a Spanish enclave on the north African coast. Spanish police had issued a warrant for his arrest on separate paedophilia and kidnapping charges.
A convicted paedophile will be allowed to keep photos of a young girl he abused after police said they were powerless to destroy them. The images - which are not classified as indecent - are stored on his laptop, which he has formally requested be handed back. The girl's mother has now asked human rights group Liberty to back her campaign to have the pictures destroyed. Sean Killick reports from Dorchester.
Dorset Police is being threatened with legal action to stop it handing back a laptop to a paedophile, which contains photos of the young girl he abused. The man, who was a family member, is entitled to get his computer back when he is released from prison. Police say they cannot delete the pictures on it because the family photos are not classified as indecent.
Dorset Police officers have said it would be "unlawful" to delete photos of an abuse victim from a paedophile's laptop. The man, a family member, was jailed in 2013 for nine years after admitting a string of sex offences, including assaulting a child under the age of 13. He has now formally requested a laptop and a mobile telephone are handed back. Liberty, which represents the victim's family, said photos of her in swimwear and leotards were on the laptop. A Home Office spokesman said: "We are looking carefully at the detail of this case." Dorset Police said they could not delete the family pictures as they were not legally classified as indecent or prohibited. As a result, the sex offender, who is in his 50s but cannot be named to protect the identity of his victim, will have access to photos of the girl and her family when he is eventually released from jail. The victim's mother said the family had been "traumatised" by the abuse. "I am appalled that the man who abused my child can ask the police to hand over our family photos for him to keep for the rest of his life. "My daughters struggle every day with the devastating consequences of his abuse and this will only make them feel more humiliated and degraded. "Why should we continue to be traumatised further?" Liberty argued that the return of the computer and mobile would breach articles three and eight of the European Convention on Human Rights, which protect against inhuman treatment and invasion of privacy, respectively. In a letter to Dorset Police, Liberty said the prospect of having the photos returned to the abuser was "causing the girls a significant amount of distress" and would be "an enormous violation of their dignity and personal integrity". The abuse has caused the victim to suffer "enormous psychological harm" and she eats very little, self-harms frequently and is at risk of suicide, Liberty said. Rosie Brighouse, legal officer at the organisation, said: "We urge the police to protect these victims' dignity. "It's surely common sense that these vulnerable girls aren't degraded further?" In a reply, Dorset Police said "present options" were limited as the legislation used to seize the phone and computer required officers to return the property. The force added: "Furthermore it would be unlawful for police officers to alter the computer and phone's memories by removing the disputed photographs before returning them." The county's Police and Crime Commissioner (PCC), Martin Underhill, said it was not the fault of the police and has set up an e-petition to lobby to change the "fundamental error" in the law. He said: "How can we protect victims of sexual abuse if current legislation allows perpetrators to keep images of them? "Think of the trauma this causes to the victims. And think of the control and power this gives the abuser."
Pope Francis has asked for forgiveness for the "evil" damage to children caused by sexual abusers in the clergy. He said the abuse was a "moral damage carried out by men of the Church", and that "sanctions" would be imposed. The statement, made in a meeting with a child rights group, is being described as his strongest the issue so far. Last month, Pope Francis strongly defended the Roman Catholic Church's record on tackling sexual abuse by priests, following UN criticism. The Pope set up a committee last year to organise help for victims of clerical sexual abuse but has been accused by some Catholics of dragging his feet in acknowledging the extent of the moral and mental damage caused by paedophile priests, the BBC's David Willey reports from Rome. The Pope said he had felt compelled to "personally ask for forgiveness for the damage [some priests] have done for having sexually abused children", the Vatican Radio website reports. He said that the number of priests who had committed abuses were "quite a few in number", although "obviously not compared to the number of all the priests". "We will not take one step backward with regards to how we will deal with this problem, and the sanctions that must be imposed," he said, adding: "We have to be even stronger". Alessandra Aula of International Catholic Child Bureau, the children's non-governmental organisation that was at the Vatican for the Pope's address, welcomed his comments. "The Pope took an unequivocal position on sexual abuse and I think it is a message we all were waiting for," she told BBC World TV. In an interview last month, Pope Francis defended the Catholic Church, saying: "No-one else has done more [to tackle child sexual abuse]. Yet the Church is the only one to have been attacked." It came after a UN report accused the Vatican of systematically placing the "preservation of the reputation of the Church and the alleged offender over the protection of child victims" - something the Church has strenuously denied. The Catholic Church has faced numerous allegations of child sex abuse by priests around the world and criticism over inadequate responses by bishops. Earlier this year Pope Francis strengthened Vatican laws on child abuse, broadening the definition of crimes against minors to include sexual abuse of children. While in office, predecessor Pope Benedict XVI apologised to victims of child sex abuse, saying he was "truly sorry" for the "sinful and criminal actions" committed by priests.
A prostitute who made some of her children watch as she had sex with clients has been sentenced to five years and eight months in prison. The woman had pleaded guilty to cruelty, gross indecency and neglect. Her four children suffered abuse, neglect and cruelty by their parents, two uncles and two other men dating back to the late 1970s. The children's father admitted a total of 17 counts of wilful neglect and cruelty by wilful assault. He was sentenced to four years in jail. To protect the children, none of the family can be identified. Addressing the parents in the Crown Court in Belfast on Friday, the judge, Mr Justice Horner, said neither of them had been prepared to take responsibility for their actions. "Your chilly indifference to your children's welfare generally and your complicity in the sexually deviant behaviour you inflicted on [three of them] speaks of a heartless tormentor interested primarily in her own pleasures and enjoyment," he told the mother. "However I accept that you are not a predatory paedophile. Not only are you pathetic, weak willed and inept, but you are also selfish and uncaring." While a social worker at the time described her as "a warm and affectionate mother", the judge said that she did not know of her sexual delinquency and the pain and hurt she must have inflicted on her young children. She was assessed by a probation officer as "cold and callous" after she sought to blame her husband for what happened. The judge told the father that he was guilty of neglect by leaving his children with a woman who was a chronic alcoholic and was incapable of caring for their needs. The judge referred to a number of savage beatings that the man had inflicted on his children for "trivialities" such as stroking one of his dogs' pups or getting sauce on a communion dress. On occasions, one of the children was beaten so hard that she wet herself. It was accepted, however, that the social worker did not see any signs of the children being physically abused. Sentencing them, Mr Justice Horner said that historic sex abuse cases present courts with significant difficulty as the sentence must be based on the maximum sentence prescribed by legislation at the time the offence was committed. In the period during which most of the offending took place in this case, the maximum sentence for child cruelty or indecent assault was two years imprisonment. An uncle who admitted three counts of gross indecency and one count of indecent assault was sentenced to two years and nine months in jail. Another uncle who admitted two counts of gross indecency, was sentenced to six months in prison suspended for two years. Former police reservist Thomas Fitzpatrick, 53, formerly of Crewhill Gardens in Ardglass, County Down, but now with an address in Belfast, was convicted of indecent assault, gross indecency and common assault and was sentenced to 18 months in jail. Patrick Kilmartin, 59, a baker from Newcastle, County Down, and originally from Bryansford Gardens but now at another address in the town, was convicted of indecent assault and was sentenced to 12 months imprisonment.
Claims that Max Clifford is a "sexual predator" are "the stuff of fiction", his barrister has told a court. Delivering his closing speech at the publicist's trial, Richard Horwell QC said it would not have been possible to keep any such behaviour secret. "If he was this wicked predator, news would have spread through the industry at the speed of electricity," he said. Mr Clifford, 71, from Hersham, Surrey, denies 11 counts of indecent assault relating to seven alleged victims. The accusations concern alleged offences between 1966 and 1984. Mr Horwell told the jury at Southwark Crown Court in London: "Men do not suddenly change from being caring gentlemen to sexual predatory monsters and then back again. "That is the stuff of fiction, not real life." Mr Clifford had no previous convictions, cautions, reprimands or warnings, he said. "How does that fit with the sexual predator the prosecution say he is?" he said. "Would not this sexual predator have been caught out once or twice in his life? "Leopards don't change their spots we are often told and people do not change their character. "If a man has a perverted sexual drive, if he is a paedophile, because that is what is alleged, that tendency is going to be with him throughout his life." Mr Horwell said a succession of character witnesses had testified that Mr Clifford was a caring and honest man who gave his time and energy to charity work. The trial continues.
Police investigating alleged historical sexual abuse by a late former mayor of Scarborough have widened their inquiry. North Yorkshire Police said in February it wanted to speak to five people who told BBC Inside Out they were abused by Peter Jaconelli as children. The force has now asked for anyone else with information about Mr Jaconelli, who died in 1999, to get in touch. Last week, the force referred itself to the police watchdog over its handling of abuse claims against Mr Jaconelli. At the time of the referral to the Independent Police Complaints Commission (IPCC), a force spokesman confirmed had he been alive today, Mr Jaconelli would have been interviewed under caution. The IPCC is also to examine how allegations made over a decade ago about the late DJ Jimmy Savile, a friend of Mr Jaconelli, were handled by force investigators. The allegations against Mr Jaconelli were first made in a BBC Inside Out investigation after claims were made online that he was a paedophile. North Yorkshire Police said it was now "keen to identify possible other victims" and was also appealing for any other information which could assist the inquiry. Relatives of Mr Jaconelli have said they are not aware of any credible evidence that he committed any sexual crimes.
A former factory worker has been jailed for eight years for sex crimes against seven boys aged between four and 15. Charles Dye, 53, from Leeds, was sentenced at Teesside Crown Court after being found guilty of 23 charges of indecent assault and gross indecency. The offences took place in Selby, Leeds, Nelson and Colne between 1979 and 1990, the court heard. Dye's crimes came to light when one of his victims contacted North Yorkshire Police in January 2012. The investigation that followed uncovered a further 22 offences. The jury at his trial heard Dye targeted his victims by either befriending their families and babysitting for them, or by gaining the trust of children who were playing in the street before abusing them. Sgt Carol Kirk, from North Yorkshire Police, said Dye was a predatory paedophile who "abused his victims' and their families' trust in the worst way possible". "He showed arrogance and contempt for what he had done right up until his trial, forcing his victims to relive their distressing ordeals in court." In a statement following Dye's sentencing, one of his victims said the abuse he had experienced had "hung from my back like a bag of bricks for most of my life". Another said the mental effects of this sort of crime could not be overestimated. "I believe no jail sentence will fully compensate me, but the sentence given will help hugely towards dealing with the emotional healing and give me some degree of closure," he said. Dye, of Shakespeare Grange, was also placed on the sex offenders register and will be the subject of an indefinite sexual offences prevention order, meaning he will be monitored on his release from prison.
An 18-year-old in the local authority's "leaving care" system was held on the same adult wing as Lostprophets paedophile Ian Watkins. Leon Meisl was transferred to the wing at Parc Prison, Bridgend, when he turned 18. Meisl, in prison for burglary, spent two months in Parc last year. Children in care make up 1% of the population but a third of male young offenders are or have been in care, a charity has said. Meisl claimed he was also held alongside a man facing three murder charges. He spent some time in the young offenders' institution at the prison, but was moved on his birthday to the wing where Watkins and Carl Mills were both on remand. Watkins, 36, later admitted the attempted rape and sexual assault of a child under 13 but pleaded not guilty to rape. He also admitted conspiring to rape a child, three counts of sexual assault involving children, seven involving taking, making or possessing indecent images of children and one of possessing an extreme pornographic image involving a sex act on an animal. He was jailed for 29 years last December. "I'm just disgusted that I was put on the same wing as them. "The murderer [Carl Mills] used to say that when he got out of prison he was going to get his daughter's name tattooed on his arm and get a bottle of cider. That was the first thing he wanted to do. "[Ian Watkins] told me he wanted to go and take meth." Paul Tidball, former president of the Prison Governors Association and former governor of Cardiff Prison, told BBC Radio Wales an 18-year-old should not automatically be moved into an adult wing, he said it should be a "selective process". He said: "It's a bit of a puzzle why he found himself in an adult wing in the first place." Mr Tidball said prison service instructions clearly state someone of Meisl's age would only be moved into an adult wing if they present a criminal's "sophistication and behavioural sophistication". A Prison Service spokesman said: "The government recognises that young people in custody are some of the most vulnerable young people in society and we take the safety of prisoners very seriously. "Prisoners are placed in establishments most suited to managing their individual needs and level of risk. Those young adults that are placed in adult wings are closely monitored by prison staff. Mills, 29, was later found guilty of murdering his six-month-old daughter Kimberley, his girlfriend Kayleigh, 17, and her mother, Kim Buckley, 46, in a fire at their home in Cwmbran, Torfaen, last year. He was sentenced to 35 years in prison. Meisl claimed he spent time with them both while at Parc. "I'd sit on the same table as both of them and I'd eat food with them," he said.
A Church of England diocese forced to apologise for past child abuse by priests has appointed a new bishop. The Reverend Richard Jackson is to be the new Bishop of Lewes following the retirement of the Right Reverend Wallace Benn in 2012. Bishop Benn was cleared of misconduct in 2013 after being accused of child protection failings. Mr Jackson, 53, leader of the church growth team, said one of his key tasks was to be a "mediator". After being ordained, he became vicar of Rudgewick in 1998 and then Rural Dean in Horsham from 2005. Mr Jackson said of his new role: "One of my key tasks is to be a mediator and to bring people to mutual understanding. "I really want to be a bishop to all people, it is as simple as that." His predecessor Bishop Benn had been accused of failing to tell police about paedophile priest Robert Coles, who was was jailed for sexually abusing three boys aged from 10 to 16. The Chichester diocese has apologised to victims of clerical abuse. The apology was endorsed by the Archbishops of Canterbury and York and the Church's General Synod. Mr Jackson will first be ordained as bishop in Westminster Abbey in May before he can take up the position of Bishop of Lewes.
A man who sent a homemade bomb to a post office as part of a "sustained and targeted vendetta" has been jailed. Ian Merrick, 39, also posted indecent images of children to six primary schools, attaching personal details of two Royal Mail employees, and branded a postman a paedophile. Police said he had "waged a one-man crusade against the post office". Merrick was jailed for seven years at Manchester Crown Court for the offences in Horwich, Bolton. Police said his vendetta dated back to 2008 and was against two Royal Mail employees in particular. He had complained to his local post office that he had not been receiving mail. After a series of run-ins with staff, it was agreed his mail would be held at the post office and he would collect it in person. But when staff refused to hand over a letter addressed to someone else, Merrick "flew into a rage", police said. On 15 April 2011 a postal worker opened a postbox at Winter Hey Lane Post Office in Horwich and found Merrick's homemade bomb. Although it did not go off, dozens of businesses were evacuated and Army bomb disposal experts were called in. About a month later white stickers were found around Horwich branding a named postman a paedophile. Six primary schools were sent indecent images of children in the post. On the back were the personal details of two Royal Mail employees. At Merrick's house police found items including a computer, a pen drive containing images similar to those sent to the schools, mobile phones and CDs. They also found online material on bomb-making and other terrorism-related material. Det Sgt Russ Stubbs said: "Thankfully Merrick was never allowed to succeed in his plans which could have left careers destroyed and innocent postal workers with severe mental distress and physical injury."
A priest who sexually assaulted seven children before spending more than two decades on the run in Spain has been jailed. Francis Paul Cullen abused the boys and girls between 1957 and 1991, when he was a priest in Derbyshire and Nottingham. The 85-year-old pleaded guilty to 21 offences last month after being traced to Tenerife then extradited to the UK. At Derby Crown Court, he was jailed for a total of 15 years. Judge Jonathan Gosling told him: "You took full advantage of your position, and the trust in which you were held, to satisfy your perverted lust. "It is impossible to reconcile the fact that you were administering the sacraments of the Catholic Church - baptism, confession, communion, confirmation - at the same time as you were indulging yourself with these children, some of whom served you on the altar at which you celebrated. "To say that you were a disgrace to your cloth understates your activity. This was gross hypocrisy. In a sentence, your entire life was a lie. "You were, in reality, cunning, devious, arrogant - in the word of one of your victims 'despicable'." The clergyman was due to go on trial at Derby Crown Court last month but admitted his guilt on what would have been the first day. Police believe there could be other victims who have not yet come forward. Cullen's youngest known victim was six years old, and his oldest was 14. They included five altar boys and two young girls, some of whom were in court for sentencing. Father Andrew Cole, Diocese of Nottingham spokesman, said the Bishop of Nottingham had asked the Holy See to "dismiss Cullen from the clerical state in view of him having pleaded guilty to the offences". Cullen will still technically be a priest, but will never function as one again, Father Cole said. The defendant fled to Tenerife in 1991 while facing charges of sexual assault brought by Nottinghamshire Police. He was born in Dublin, but he abused the children while working as a priest in Mackworth and Buxton, both in Derbyshire, and Hyson Green, in Nottingham. He also worked in Scunthorpe, Leicester and Alfreton.
A paedophile priest who abused children for more than 30 years had a calling that came "from the devil", one of his victims said. Francis Paul Cullen was jailed for 15 years for abusing five boys and two girls during his Catholic priesthood in Derbyshire and Nottinghamshire. Derby Crown Court heard his victims struggled to deal with what happened and one tried to take their own life. The court heard Cullen abused the youngsters at home and in his caravan. Cullen, 85, then went on the run in 1991 and evaded justice for 20 years, before he was caught living on the Spanish island of Tenerife. In one impact statement that was read to the court, the victim told Cullen: "You said you had a calling from God to join the priesthood. You are correct to say you had a calling... just it was from the Devil." Prosecutor Sarah Knight said the defendant had been a "well-liked and respected" clergyman whom families trusted and children "idolised". But they were unaware of the "predatory paedophile" which lurked behind the mask, Ms Knight said. Many of the altar boys were invited to tea at Cullen's home where he then abused him. Others were attacked after Mass or in his caravan during Cub Scout trips that he ran. On one occasion, Cullen even travelled to Ireland to visit a victim while he was on holiday, the court was told. Judge Jonathan Gosling said: "You were also welcomed into the parents' homes. "They could never have guessed that in truth you were a predatory paedophile - a term which was at that time unknown to the vocabulary." He abused five altar boys and two girls when he worked as a priest in Mackworth and Buxton, both in Derbyshire, and Hyson Green, Nottinghamshire, between the 1950s and early 1990s. Judge Gosling said: "The victims of this man's abuse have found it extremely hard to come forward and maintain their determination to see justice done. "This must have been acutely difficult, in particular when some of them discovered, as surely they did, that following his extradition he was proposing to fight the allegations." Addressing the victims, some of whom were in court for the sentencing, he added: "I hope that the conclusion of this case will enable them to come to terms with what they suffered over many decades." Father Andrew Cole spokesman for the Roman Catholic Diocese of Nottingham said: "We are truly sorry for the wrong that has been done by Cullen to his victims and their families; their trust was betrayed and their dignity violated. "We will do whatever we can to support Cullen's victims and all who have been affected by this tragedy."
A convicted paedophile has been jailed for two years in Cambodia for sexually abusing three brothers. Richard Fruin, 36, formerly from Gloucestershire, left the UK after serving a year-long sentence for producing images of child sex abuse. He was arrested in October last year after his guesthouse room in Phnom Penh was raided, and he was found with a partially-dressed 8-year-old boy. The boy's brothers, aged 10 and 11, testified that they were also abused. Fruin was ordered to pay 10 million riels (£1,500) compensation to the victims and fine of four million riels (£600). After serving his sentence he will be deported from Cambodia. Yi Moden, from the children's rights organisation Action Pour Les Enfants (APLE), said he was "satisfied" with the deportation order, compensation and fine. "I feel, however, that Richard Fruin deserves a longer imprisonment," he said. "With this sentencing, we can be sure that this man will not hurt any child in Cambodia any more." Fruin was convicted at Gloucester Crown Court in October 2012 of 15 counts of possessing indecent images of children.
Max Clifford exposed himself in his office to a 16-year-old aspiring actress who confided in him about her abusive family life, a court has heard. The woman, who said she met Mr Clifford in 1988 when she was living in care, said he had also taken her to an office toilet and forced her to touch him. The woman is not among seven alleged victims of the publicist, who denies a total of 11 indecent assault charges. The jury also heard he told police it was "revolting" to be accused. The woman, now aged 42, appeared via video link to give evidence in support of the prosecution case. She told Southwark Crown Court Mr Clifford had offered to help her become a model and get her film roles. She said that, while visiting Mr Clifford at his office, he had told her to go to a pay phone in a department store to receive a phone call. When she picked up the phone, a man told her to go back to the office and find Max Clifford's "Achilles heel", she told the court. She said she had not understood what this meant, but when she returned to the office, Mr Clifford exposed himself before instructing her to return to the store to pick up another call. A man once again told her to return to the office where Mr Clifford again exposed himself, she told the jury. And this time he went on to lead her into a toilet where he forced her to touch him, she said. Asked by prosecutor Rosina Cottage QC how she had felt, the woman said: "Pretty disgusted at that point, and confused." The court was also told that Mr Clifford had invited her to a restaurant where he asked her to "go to the toilet" with another man, which she refused to do. She said the publicist had later arranged for her to meet a man he said was directing a film with Blade Runner actor Rutger Hauer. The woman told the jury that the man had taken her to a house and tried to kiss her before she left. "I was in quite a panic to get out of there," she added. She said she had gone to confront Mr Clifford about what had happened, adding: "The way he looked at me was enough - I just left." The woman, who said she never saw Mr Clifford again, explained that she had never told anybody about the experience because it was "humiliating". But when she saw the publicist protesting his innocence after his arrest in 2012, she decided to contact the police, the court heard. Jurors were later read extracts of police interviews with Mr Clifford when he was first questioned after his arrest in December 2012. The court heard that police quizzed him over an allegation that he indecently assaulted a girl he met while on holiday with her family in Torremolinos, Spain, in 1977. Police told him they had found a letter from the woman - accusing him of abusing her - in his bedside table. He told police: "I've received letters about controversial things, when I was involved in OJ Simpson and Guantanamo Bay. "It's the first one I've ever received accusing me of being a paedophile. "It's disgusting and totally without any foundation at all. I didn't abuse this girl." He told police he had kept the letter in his bedside drawer so he could show his wife, the court heard. He had helped to expose pop star Gary Glitter and Jonathan King as paedophiles in his work as a publicist, he added. And he told officers he did not need to force himself himself on women, saying he had lots of female attention. He also acknowledged having had sex in his office with a personal assistant, with whom he had had an affair, telling police: "I had a very active sexual life for many, many years." Mr Clifford, 70, from Hersham, Surrey, denies 11 counts of indecent assault - relating to seven alleged victims aged from 14 to 19 - between 1966 and 1984.
Hundreds of vulnerable boys at a detention centre may have been abused by a paedophile ring in the 1970s and 1980s, police fear. The Durham force said it was "shocked" after getting hundreds of calls after a BBC programme about sexual and physical abuse was shown in January. A spokeswoman said there were now up to 500 victims claiming physical or sexual abuse at the Medomsley juvenile centre. Two members of staff at the centre were jailed in 2003 and 2005 over the abuse. Durham Police said many former inmates who had been in touch since the BBC Inside Out programme was shown were now get counselling. The majority of men - about 340 - claim they were physically assaulted and around 160 said they were sexually abused. The centre closed in 1988 after the abuse came to light, but has since reopened as a secure training unit. Neville Husband, who worked at the detention centre as a prison officer, was jailed for 12 years for in 2003 for sexual abuse. Leslie Johnson, a store man, was sentenced to six years in 2005. Both men have since died. However, police are investigating if other people were involved in abusing boys at the centre. A spokeswoman for Durham Police said: "We are now looking at potentially 500 victims linked to Medomsley."
An 18-year-old who was in the local authority's "leaving care" system was held on the same adult wing as Lostprophets paedophile Ian Watkins. Leon Meisl, who was previously in care, was transferred to the wing at Parc Prison, Bridgend, when he turned 18. Meisl, who was in prison for burglary, went into care at the age of 12 and spent two months in Parc last year. Children in care make up 1% of the population but a third of male young offenders are or have been in care, a charity has said. Meisl said he was "disgusted" at being placed in the same wing as Watkins and Carl Mills, who was later convicted of murdering his daughter, girlfriend and her mother in a house fire in Cwmbran, Torfaen.
A former trainee teacher caught 11 years ago in an FBI sting targeting paedophiles has been jailed for life for trying to abduct two girls. George Richards, 29, of Gladstone Road, Ware, Hertfordshire, tried to snatch a five-year-old and a 10-year-old girl in two incidents in the town last year. He was jailed under the name Luke Sadowski in 2003 for arranging to buy a child from undercover FBI officers. At St Albans Crown Court he was given a minimum term of seven years in jail. Richards pleaded guilty to two counts of child abduction, using an imitation firearm and possessing a knife at a previous hearing. The court heard that in 2003, while training to be a primary school teacher in Canterbury, Sadowski was jailed for three years after being caught by undercover FBI officers at a London hotel trying to buy a child from Eastern Europe for £250. A search of his university room found a safe full of handcuffs, leg shackles and a gun, amongst other paraphernalia. The jury heard the defendant, now named George Richards, tried to abduct a 10-year-old girl on a Ware footbridge on 12 September but he fled after being shouted at by an off-duty police officer. The following Monday, Richards went to a cul-de-sac in the town where he grabbed a five-year-old girl before running off. Officers found him nearby and when they approached he held a fake gun at them, but was eventually arrested. Officers found a kitchen knife, tape and two lengths of string on him. A subsequent search of his flat found he had prepared it to hold children, with windows blacked out and bolts placed high on doors. Dante Leccacorvi, defending, said Richards was trying to "goad" police, saying he was concerned he was being followed by authorities. Passing sentence, Judge John Plumstead said: "The level of danger you represent to the public is enormous."I am perfectly sure you were intent on abducting and sexually assaulting, or worse, helpless children, but you lost your nerve." A statement from the Ware victims' families, said: "The man who did this is dangerous and whilst knowing he is now in prison may help us rebuild our lives, we have also been sentenced to living with these awful memories forever."
A man snared by an internet "paedophile hunter" killed himself days after police had questioned him, an inquest has heard. Michael Parkes, 45, was confronted and filmed in May last year by Stinson Hunter, who had arranged to meet him after posing as a child online. Mr Parkes was later arrested by police but had not been charged. Northamptonshire Coroner Anne Pember recorded a verdict of suicide, with the cause of death as hanging. Mr Parkes was arrested by Northamptonshire Police on 29 May last year on suspicion of meeting someone he thought to be a 12-year-old girl for sex. In a statement after the inquest, the force said it would have sought a charging decision based on the evidence supporting the allegation. A force spokesman said: "It is clear that Parkes drove to Coventry with the intention of engaging in sexual activity with a child." Stinson Hunter, who changed his name from Keiren Parsons, has caused controversy by posting videos of his meetings online and has been criticised by police for his methods. At the inquest at Northampton General Hospital, the coroner said Mr Parkes, a warehouse manager and father of one, was "feeling low and depressed" at the time of his death on 2 June last year. The inquest heard he was found dead in his car with a ligature around his neck. Mr Parkes, who lived with his mother in Hemans Road, Daventry, was removed from the car. A passing doctor led efforts to resuscitate him but he died at the scene. Dr Alexander Wennekes, a GP, said he had prescribed anti-depressants to Mr Parkes for bouts of work-related stress and depression. Dr Wennekes said that earlier in 2013, Mr Parkes complained of feeling depressed after splitting from his partner of three years while she was pregnant with their son. He said Mr Parkes, who also had a wife from whom he was separated, contacted the surgery again on 30 May, saying he was suffering depression. "When I saw him he said he was going through a bad patch, had financial difficulties, no access to his son and had been arrested by the police on what he said were false allegations - however, he did not explain further," said Dr Wennekes. Mr Parkes' brother Richard said the arrest "had a significant effect on his state of mind and the actions he had taken". Following the inquest, he said: "The police have not provided me with any evidence that supports these allegations." Paying tribute to Mr Parkes, he said: "Michael's family are deeply shocked by his death. "He was a loving father, son and brother and a caring person who put his family and others first." After the inquest, Mr Hunter, from Warwickshire, said he did not feel responsible for Mr Parkes' death. "I feel for his family and it's a shame for them, but ultimately he made his own choices," he said. "I have done the right thing. He had been arrested and bailed." Northamptonshire Police offered its condolences to Mr Parkes' family. "We have a duty to investigate and respond to child abuse allegations," a spokesman said. "A decision to arrest Parkes was made when it became clear from the material supplied to us that he believed the age of the person he was in communication with was 12 years old. "In the light of Parkes' subsequent death, a thorough review was carried out and it is clear that it would have passed the threshold test and that Northamptonshire Police would have sought a CPS charging decision." The spokesman added: "We do not condone or support the actions of Stinson Hunter." Separately, Warwickshire Police and West Mercia Police issued a joint statement stating they did not condone his methods and adding that his actions "could have several serious consequences", including compromising continuing investigations.
A top judge campaigned to support a paedophile group that tried to legalise sex with children, a newspaper claims. The Mail on Sunday said Lord Justice Fulford was a founder member of a campaign to defend the Paedophile Information Exchange (PIE). The judge told the BBC he had "no memory" of this, but had in the 1970s been involved with a civil liberties group to which PIE was affiliated. He said he had never supported PIE and child abuse was "wholly wrong". The Daily Mail has run a series of articles questioning the links between PIE and civil liberties group the National Council for Civil Liberties during the 1970s and early 1980s. PIE had called for greater tolerance and paedophile "rights" and campaigned for a lowering of the age of consent to 10. Labour deputy leader Harriet Harman, her husband and fellow Labour MP Jack Dromey and former Labour health secretary Patricia Hewitt were all prominent figures in the NCCL, which granted PIE affiliate status in 1975. Ms Hewitt has apologised for having "got it wrong", while Mr Dromey has accused the Daily Mail of "dirty, gutter journalism". Ms Harman has said she "regrets" the links between the two groups but she has "nothing to apologise for".
Pope Francis has strongly defended the Roman Catholic Church's record on tackling sexual abuse by priests. In a rare interview with an Italian newspaper, the Pope said "no-one else has done more" to root out paedophilia. He said the Church had acted with transparency and responsibility, yet it was the only institution to have been attacked. Last month, the UN strongly criticised the Vatican for failing to stamp out child abuse and for allowing cover-ups. In his interview with Corriere della Sera published on Wednesday, Pope Francis said: "The Catholic Church is perhaps the only public institution to have acted with transparency and responsibility. "No-one else has done more. Yet the Church is the only one to have been attacked." The Pope, who will celebrate his first anniversary of his election later this month, also praised his predecessor, Emeritus Pope Benedict XVI, for changing the Church's attitude towards predatory priests, saying he had been "very courageous". He also questioned the focus of the debate, saying: "The statistics on the phenomenon of violence against children are shocking, but they also clearly show that the great majority of abuses are carried out in family or neighbourhood environments." A UN report into the abuse scandals published last month called on the Pope to "immediately remove" all clergy who were known or suspected child abusers. It also accused the Vatican of systematically placing the "preservation of the reputation of the Church and the alleged offender over the protection of child victims" - something it has strenuously denied. The UN Committee on the Rights of the Child (CRC) said the Holy See should open its files on members of the clergy who had "concealed their crimes" so that they could be held accountable by the authorities. Pope Francis has set up a commission to investigate sex crimes committed by priests and to care for victims, but so far he has made very few public comments about the scandals that have rocked the Church in recent years.
A paedophile previously spared prison because of overcrowding has been jailed for downloading child abuse images and videos of bestiality. Derek Williams, 53, of Blaenau Ffestiniog, Gwynedd, admitted charges of accessing bestiality and was found guilty on the child abuse images. The judge at Caernarfon Crown Court said Williams had an obsession. Williams was jailed for three-and-a-half years. In 2007 a judge decided to give him a suspended sentence in response to a request by the home secretary for judges to send only the most dangerous and persistent offenders to prison because they were so full. Williams was instead given a six-month sentence suspended for two years after he had admitted downloading pornographic pictures of children. The move provoked widespread debate and led to statements by the then Home Secretary John Reid and Tony Blair, who was prime minister. Williams was quoted on national television as saying: "Yes, I am lucky to be out, but you cannot blame the judge for what he has done. His hands are tied. He was only doing his job." Within weeks, Williams was jailed for eight months - which covered his original sentence and two extra months - for failing to register as a sex offender within three days. In January, Williams was found guilty at Caernarfon Crown Court of 15 charges of downloading child sex abuse images. He admitted downloading bestiality images. On Wednesday, Judge Timothy Petts described some images, of girls as young as seven, as disgusting. A Sexual Offences Prevention Order was also imposed.
A corrupt police officer may have helped a paedophile evade justice for 20 years, a report has revealed. William Goad, from Plymouth, Devon, is said to have abused thousands of boys over three decades. Two investigations in 1987 and 1994 collapsed before Goad was finally jailed in 2004. He died in 2012. An internal investigation has cited the "suspicious" behaviour of an officer, but said he had died and there was not enough evidence to take further action. Devon and Cornwall Police said the complaint into whether police helped Goad, made by one of his victims, 44-year-old Paul Wyatt, had been "fully investigated". Mr Wyatt, who has waived his right to anonymity, claimed Goad was tipped off by police "acquaintances" allowing him to "act without prosecution" for years. The report, seen by the BBC, reveals senior officers also believed their investigations were compromised claiming Goad appeared to be expecting them before his home was searched. The report also describes an occasion when police were returning property to Goad and he started to mention the names of police officers he knew.
Victims of a paedophile priest have been prevented from taking fresh legal action against the Catholic Church. The High Court in Dublin made the ruling against the trio, who settled cases against Brendan Smyth in 1998. The victims alleged negligence because complaints made about Smyth in 1975 were not reported. But the judge said that the alleged new or additional facts were already in the public domain when the cases were settled. The trio took a case against the Bishop of Kilmore Leo O'Reilly, and Cardinal Sean Brady - the head of the Catholic church in Ireland. They alleged the clerics had not taken steps to prevent Smyth from molesting children in the 1970s and 1980s. It was claimed the churchmen did not report complaints about Smyth that emerged in an interview with two boys in 1975. The new action - which was contested by the Catholic Church - was taken against Bishop O'Reilly, as successor to Bishop Francis McKiernan, and Cardinal Brady, a former secretary to the Bishop of Kilmore. One of the victims was paid 30,000 euros (£25,000) under the deal in 1998. Lawyers for the victims said the content of the 1975 interviews was "actively concealed" in their court proceedings in the 1990s, and if they had known, they would not have settled the case for that amount. They also said the earlier settlement was a partial one. In his ruling, Justice Nicholas Kearns said there was no new cause of action arising from the revelations about the 1975 interview. "It goes without saying that no claim could ever be regarded as finalised and concluded if it could be set aside in circumstances where a newly discovered complication were to come to light in the aftermath of a settlement," he ruled. "Settlements must in the interests of the proper administration of justice achieve finality of disputes." In a statement, Bishop O'Reilly said: "I acknowledge and I deeply regret the great suffering that all three plaintiffs endured at the hands of Father Smyth and I utterly condemn his actions and the betrayal of trust that they represent." Smyth was convicted of dozens of offences against children over a 40-year period. He died in prison of a heart attack in 1997 just a month into a 12-year sentence.
A convicted paedophile, who sexually assaulted a six-year-old girl while he was on probation, has been sentenced to three years in jail. The child was walking to her friend's house when David Page assaulted her, Craigavon Crown Court was told. Page, who refused to leave his cell and enter the dock throughout proceedings, was sentenced in his absence. His address was given as Ventry Lane, Belfast, but he lived for some time in Albert Street, Lurgan, County Armagh. In addition to the assault charge, Page was convicted of breaching a Sexual Offences Prevention Order (SOPO) and his probation. The court heard that the attack took place at about 15:00 GMT on an afternoon last May. His six-year-old victim had been making her way to a friend's house, which was about four minutes walk away, when Page stopped the girl and brought her into his house. The girl's mother made a statement about the attack, which was referred to in court. She said her daughter had changed from a happy-go-lucky child to an angry girl who said she should not have gone into Page's house. Ahead of sentencing, the judge was told that the 42-year-old defendant was a persistent offender who had committed a string of sex offences since 1991. The most serious of those offence was rape, for which he was sentenced to seven years in 1997. The court heard that the attack took place at about 15:00 GMT on an afternoon last May. His six-year-old victim had been making her way to a friend's house, which was about four minutes walk away, when Page stopped the girl and brought her into his house. The girl's mother made a statement about the attack, which was referred to in court. She said her daughter had changed from a happy-go-lucky child to an angry girl who said she should not have gone into Page's house. Ahead of sentencing, the judge was told that the 42-year-old defendant was a persistent offender who had committed a string of sex offences since 1991. The most serious of those offence was rape, for which he was sentenced to seven years in 1997.
A paedophile former special constable, who fled to Cambodia while on licence in 2006, has been arrested at Gatwick Airport. Ian Bower, 48, was jailed for sex offences against children in 2004 but absconded from a Derby bail hostel shortly after his release. He was jailed in Cambodia in 2012 for further sex offences against children. Bower was released last year but was deported back to the UK in connection with a passport offence He was sentenced to 78 months in prison for sexual offences against children and downloading indecent images of children in September 2004. Bower was released on licence to a probation hostel in Derby in 2006 but absconded a month later and travelled to Cambodia. He was arrested in Phnom Penh and sentenced to two years in prison in July 2012 for further sexual offences against children The country's deputy prime minister signed Bower's deportation order on 27 February, Derbyshire Police said.
Labour MP Jack Dromey has rejected claims he did not do "much" to try to expel a paedophile group from a civil liberties organisation he worked for in the 1970s, calling them a "smear". Paedophile Information Exchange founder Tom O'Carroll said Mr Dromey and his wife Harriet Harman had not wanted to "rock the boat". Mr Dromey said that "no one" would believe this account of events. O'Carroll was convicted in 2006 of child pornography offences. Mr Dromey, Ms Harman, who is Labour's deputy leader, and former Labour Health Secretary Patricia Hewitt all worked for the National Council for Civil Liberties - the predecessor to the Liberty group of today - during the 1970s. The Paedophile Information Exchange, which campaigned to lower the age of consent to 10, became an affiliated group in 1975 and remained so until 1983. Mr Dromey, Ms Harman and Ms Hewitt have come under increasing pressure to discuss the links between the two organisations, with the Daily Mail in particular calling for an apology.
A gang that raped and sexually assaulted five vulnerable girls in Peterborough have been jailed at the Old Bailey. Hassan Abdulla, 33, was jailed for 20 years while Zdeno Mirga, 18, described as the "boss" by one victim, was jailed for 16 and a half years. Both were convicted of multiple rapes and child prostitution. Jan Kandrac, 17, and Renato Balog, 18, were jailed for five and a half and 12 years respectively. A 14-year-old boy, who cannot be identified for legal reasons, was given a non-custodial six-month youth rehabilitation order after being convicted of sexual activity with a child. The men and youths were of Czech and Slovak Roma and Kurdish backgrounds. Ringleader Mirga and Balog will begin their sentences in a young offender institution. Mirga was convicted of eight counts of rape and one count of inciting child prostitution. The court heard one of his victims became pregnant. Drug dealer Abdulla was convicted of four rapes and three counts of inciting a child to engage in sexual activity. Balog, who helped Abdulla sell drugs, was jailed for five rapes and three sexual assaults. Kandrac will serve his sentence in a young offender institution for one count of rape and two of indecent assault on a child. The court was told the case came to light when a girl, then aged 12 or 13, was taken into care and began to tell her social worker what had been happening to her. After the trial the Crown Prosecution Service said it was one of the "worst cases" of child sex abuse it had seen. The gang preyed on girls who visited a fried chicken takeaway in Peterborough. They used "sophisticated" grooming tactics to lure them to attacks carried out at parks and other locations, including a children's playground, police said. Peterborough City Council has begun a serious case review into the care the children received.
A self-confessed paedophile who sent letters to the Pope arguing for child sex to be legalised has been jailed for six years for downloading child pornography. Andrew Bowen, 50, of Bawtry Close, Lincoln, told the city's Crown Court he did not believe his actions were criminal. Police found 24,000 images of child pornography on his computer. He was sentenced in his absence when he refused to leave his cell. Det Cons Nicole Linn, of Lincolnshire Police's internet child abuse team, said Bowen had also written letters to Prime Minister David Cameron, United Nations General Secretary Ban Ki-moon and Justice Minister Chris Grayling advocating "freedom of choice for children to have sexual relationships". A police spokesman said Bowen even returned to Lincoln Police Station when he was on bail with a laptop computer containing indecent images of children. He was arrested again on Lincoln High Street and was found to have another laptop with indecent images on it. Bowen was convicted of 23 charges relating to making indecent images of children, possession of indecent images and possessing images for distribution. Judge Sean Morris said: "I think he's dangerous. There is a significant risk that he will cause serious harm to children. "He is devious, he is intelligent and I am worried for his sanity."
A paedophile who put a vulnerable girl through a "harrowing ordeal" has been jailed. Andrew Clark, 36, was sentenced to seven years and four months in prison at Hull Crown Court for a string of sex offences on a girl under 13. Clark, of Pelham Road, Immingham, pleaded guilty to seven counts of sexual assault at an earlier hearing. Humberside Police said the defendant caused his victim "significant distress". Det Con Teresa Colledge said: "I am pleased that this paedophile has been locked away for a number of years and does not pose any further harm to his victim. "I also hope that this sentence will help bring some closure to her. This has been a harrowing ordeal for both her and her family."
Allegations that a former mayor of Scarborough sexually abused children are to be examined by police. North Yorkshire Police says it wants to speak to at least five people who say they were assaulted or propositioned as children by Peter Jaconelli. The allegations were made during a BBC Inside Out investigation into online claims he was a paedophile. The force has asked alleged victims to come forward in order for it to "properly consider" their claims. Real Whitby, an online blog site, claims Mr Jaconelli - who died in 1999 - was well known to the police as a paedophile but was protected because of his status as a wealthy businessman and respected political figure. One man told the BBC programme he was propositioned as a 15-year-old by Mr Jaconelli in 1968. A second man said he was assaulted in a men's toilet in 1951 aged 13. A force spokesman said: "North Yorkshire Police is considering the content of the programme, its effect on previous matters and the potential need for any future investigative work that would best serve the interests of those directly affected. "In so doing, North Yorkshire Police would encourage those individuals who took part in the programme, who were the subject of direct contact with the late Mr Jaconelli, to get in touch as soon as possible in order that their allegations and wishes are fully and properly considered." Relatives of Mr Jaconelli have said they are not aware of any credible evidence that he committed any sexual crimes.
Calls have been made for an inquiry into claims paedophile rock star Ian Watkins could have been caught sooner. BBC Wales has new evidence that social services were told in 2008 about a young girl who was pictured with what was claimed to be cocaine. Rhondda Cynon Taf council said it acted "in line with agreed procedures". The Pontypridd-born Lostprophets singer was jailed for 29 years last December after admitting a catalogue of serious sex offences involving children. Watkins, 36, admitted the attempted rape and sexual assault of a child under 13 but pleaded not guilty to rape. He also admitted conspiring to rape a child, three counts of sexual assault involving children, seven involving taking, making or possessing indecent images of children and one of possessing an extreme pornographic image involving a sex act on an animal.
The former headmaster of a school attended by Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg has been jailed for eight years for sexually abusing five pupils. Roland Peter Wright, 83, of Farnham Royal, Buckinghamshire, abused boys aged between eight and 13 at Caldicott Preparatory School from 1959 to 1970. His sentencing went ahead despite the death of another former teacher who had been due to appear with him. Hugh Henry, 82, apparently threw himself under a train on Tuesday. Judge Johannah Cutts QC told Wright: "These offences were so serious that it is beyond question that only a custodial sentence can be justified. "I have to sentence you for multiple offending against each of these victims. "This was prolonged activity, the boys were groomed by a master at a school responsible for their care." Mr Clegg was a pupil at the school from 1974 until 1980 and was joint head boy in his final year. When Wright was convicted in December, Mr Clegg said: "I am shocked and appalled by the gross betrayal of trust and violation of childhood innocence that has been shown to have taken place at Caldicott." Wright, who served as headmaster at the school for 25 years, lived in a cottage overlooking the school playing fields after his retirement in 1993. At his trial last year, Amersham Crown Court was told Wright was the centre of a paedophile ring at the school.
A Polish man who was abused as a child by a priest is suing the country's Roman Catholic Church - the first such civil case in the country. The man - who is only identified as 25-year-old Marcin K - is demanding 47,500 euros ($64,500; £39,550) in damages. The priest has been convicted and is now serving a two-year jail sentence. The church leadership apologised to all child abuse victims last year, but insisted it would not pay damages for the crimes of individual clergymen. On Wednesday, the UN said the Vatican should "immediately remove" all clergy who were known or suspected child abusers. In a report, the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child also denounced the Holy See for adopting policies which allowed priests to sexually abuse thousands of children.
A man has been jailed for six years after pleading guilty to possessing hundreds of thousands of indecent images of children. Jeffrey Beeden, of Furnival Street in Cobridge, Stoke-on-Trent, also admitted distributing more than 6,000 images. The 51-year-old was released from prison in March 2013 after serving a nine-month sentence for breaching an earlier Sex Offenders Prevention Order. He was arrested following a routine inspection by police of his computer. Beeden had also been jailed in 2009 for possessing indecent images of children. Staffordshire Police discovered Beeden had set up a website and forum on an encrypted area of the internet accessed and used by offenders. In addition to looking at the images Beeden provided, others were encouraged to post and discuss indecent material themselves.
The High Court in Dublin has reserved its decision on an application by a Catholic bishop to dismiss cases being taken against him by three victims of paedophile priest Brendan Smyth. The Bishop of Kilmore, Leo O'Reilly, is being sued as successor to the previous bishop, Francis McKiernan, as is Cardinal Sean Brady, formerly secretary to the bishop of Kilmore. The victims accuse them of negligence. They allege they did not take steps to prevent Smyth from abusing children. Smyth abused children in the 1970s and the 1980s. The victims said the churchmen did not report complaints made about Smyth in interviews conducted with two young boys in 1975.One of the boys identified one of those taking the case as a victim of the priest during these interviews. Lawyers for Bishop O'Reilly said the man who was named in the interviews cannot continue this action as he received a settlement from Smyth's order, the Norbertines, in 1998. They said he accepted the settlement of £25,000, as a full settlement of all claims in relation to Smyth. They say he sued Cardinal Cahal Daly in the original proceedings in Northern Ireland, as primate of All Ireland and representative of the bishops. They said this was a legal issue and if the court allowed this case to be taken after a settlement had been agreed, it would have implications for all such settlements. Lawyers for the victims say the fact that one of the boys interviewed in 1975 had disclosed that the man involved in this case was also being abused by Smyth was "actively concealed" in the court proceedings in the 1990s. Neither his parents nor the civil authorities were informed and the boys interviewed were sworn to secrecy. The lawyers said if they had known that information they would not have settled the case for such an amount. They also said the earlier settlement was a partial settlement. High Court President Mr Justice Nicholas Kearns said he would have to decide on this preliminary issue. He said he would have to decide if the parties who were sued in 1996 were the same as the parties now being sued. And he said he would have to decide if the alleged facts and circumstances were the same in both cases.
A British man caught in an undercover US and UK police operation has been jailed for trying to arrange for a child to be abused to order online. Mark Luscombe, 29, of Verwood, Dorset, contacted a US Homeland Security officer who was posing as a paedophile. He offered to send the officer indecent images of children in exchange for watching a girl being abused on webcam. Luscombe was sentenced to five years in jail after pleading guilty to 16 sexual offences at Bournemouth Crown Court. When he was arrested at his home near Bournemouth in December, police found more than 150 indecent images of children on his computer. During questioning Luscombe told officers he was "wired differently". Matthew J Etre, attaché for US Homeland Security Investigations (HSI) in London, said: "Protecting children from exploitation is one of the most important missions we have and, as this case demonstrates, it takes the collaboration of law enforcement agencies around the world to tackle this crime." At a previous appearance, Luscombe pleaded guilty to sexual activity with a child and arranging or facilitating the commission of a child sex offence, as well as eight counts of making indecent photographs of a child and five counts of distributing indecent photographs of a child, He also pleaded guilty to another offence of possessing an extreme pornographic image.
An Anglican vicar was caught with more than 8,000 images of child sexual abuse, including 800 of the "worst kind", Liverpool Crown Court heard. Ian Hughes, 46, was a successful priest by day but by night was downloading thousands of indecent internet images of children, the court was told. Hughes admitted 17 offences and was jailed for a year. The Bishop of Chester said he was "deeply shocked" at Hughes' "unacceptable" actions. Hughes has resigned from the priesthood. Expressing his "profound regret", the Rt Rev Dr Peter Forster apologised to Hughes' former parishioners in Poulton and Seacombe in Wallasey. He added: "They have been badly let down." "Ian Hughes' court appearances and sentencing have come as a deep shock to all who know him. His actions have been totally unacceptable for a Christian minister, and his case will now be considered by the disciplinary procedures of the church," the bishop said. Hughes told police he was relieved when they raided his vicarage in Wallasey last year. They found 8,200 images he had downloaded, including 800 that are categorised as the worst kind legally. He told officers it was "like an addiction" and he had been attracted to young boys since he was a teenager and had "struggled" with his sexuality throughout his life. Det Insp David Rich, of Merseyside Police's cyber investigations unit, said the sentence should "send out a very clear message to paedophiles that they cannot hide behind the anonymity of the internet to commit crimes against children and they will eventually be caught." He added: "All the images represent children, in some way, being abused, and every time a picture is downloaded by a paedophile it creates a vicious circle of misery which eventually leads to more abuse and more victims."
DJ Dave Lee Travis has told a court he does not have a "predatory nature". Giving evidence at Southwark Crown Court, Mr Travis said: "What I have is a cuddly nature with women. So maybe that's what this is all about." He dismissed claims that he was a sexual predator as "nonsensical", but said he was tactile and that if he liked someone he would hug them. The former BBC DJ, 68, of Mentmore, Buckinghamshire, denies sexual assault and 13 counts of indecent assault. Mr Travis is accused of indecently assaulting 10 women and sexually assaulting another. Mr Travis told the court: "Perhaps hugging is something which can be misconstrued by some people or if people are looking for an excuse they can say 'he touched us'." He added: "If I really like somebody I will put my arm around them and I might give them a peck on the cheek, I even do that with men, to make them feel comfortable and welcome to the place. "But nowadays you are not allowed to do that, put your arms around people and hug them." Mr Travis told the trial he cannot recall being in a studio with a Radio 4 announcer who claims he grabbed her breasts in the early 1980s. She was described as a "nice lady" who was "always a bit of fun" by Mr Travis. He said he did not "get" her allegation. Mr Travis also said he might have accidentally touched the knee of a female journalist at Chiltern Radio but had not sexually assaulted her.
The victims of paedophile William Goad might never get compensation, the solicitor for his family has said. Goad, who is believed to have abused up to 3,500 boys, was jailed in 2004 at Plymouth Crown Court. He died in prison of natural causes in 2012, aged 68. He was believed to have been a millionaire, but the Goad family solicitor Charles Knapper said he had found very few assets. He added he could not see how the victims could recover compensation. Goad, who lived in Plymouth, abused boys over a 35-year period dating back to the 1960s. He had owned discount shops and market stalls, but left just £237 and a life insurance policy of £50,000 to his brother. Mr Knapper said: "I know there have been a number of articles describing him as a millionaire but we found no evidence whatsoever. "I have to question as to whether the money was ever there." He said he could not find any evidence which suggested Goad had transferred money to partners or friends. Mr Knapper said: "I don't act for any of the poor victims, [but] I can't see anything they can possibly do to recover compensation from this dreadful man." Goad pleaded guilty to 14 specimen counts of serious sexual assault and two counts of indecent assault and was sentenced to life in prison. During his trial, prosecutor Martin Meeke QC described Goad as a "voracious, calculating, predatory and violent homosexual paedophile".
DJ Dave Lee Travis told police after his arrest that groping behaviour was the "norm" during the 1970s but denied sexual offences, a court has heard. Prosecutor Teresa Hay said he told police that "if he had touched someone's breasts he would admit it". He said he would have been insane to grope anyone in a BBC studio, a claim made in court by a previous witness - Ms Hay told Southwark Crown Court. Mr Travis denies 13 counts of indecent assault and one of sexual assault. During a series of police interviews after Mr Travis's arrest in November 2012, he described the various allegations against him as "absurd and ridiculous". Reading extracts from the interviews, Ms Hay said: "He said if he had touched someone's breasts he would admit it as it was considered to be a bit flirtatious at the time and no-one thought that much about it. "He said the allegations did not happen. If any of it had been true he would apologise and accept that this was the norm in that period. "He said his reputation was everything to him - if it had happened he would happily own up." On Thursday, a woman told the court Mr Travis indecently assaulted her in a BBC studio while presenting his Radio 1 show in the mid-1970s. Referring to that claim, Ms Hay said: "He said the allegation was unbelievable and he was shocked that people in his industry were such targets. "He said he would have had to be a moron to do anything in the studio when people could see in from outside." Asked by officers about the similarities between some of the women's accounts, the defendant said: "Two people who are not connected are both telling porkies." The court heard he described allegations that he groped a teenage girl in the audience of Top Of The Pops in 1978 as "ridiculous and stupid". "There were cameras on him from all angles and the show goes out to 20 million people," Ms Hay said.
A paedophile who was jailed for having sex with a 13-year-old girl has been jailed again for raping a girl of 15 in a hotel in Conwy county. Gavin Benit, 36, was convicted at Caernarfon Crown Court after the jury heard he had groomed the vulnerable girl with graphic text messages. Jailing him for 10 years, Judge Merfyn Hughes QC also imposed a 10-year order limiting Benit's internet access. The rape took place at a Colwyn Bay hotel where he was placed in a flat. Benit had served a four-year sentence for the previous offence. He admitted taking the teenager - who he referred to as Baby Girl - into his flat at the Hotel Rothsay, even though visitors were not allowed beyond the foyer at the hotel. Sion ap Mihangel, prosecuting, claimed the defendant was a man "who likes to have sex with under-age girls". He told the jury that graphic text messages seized by police made it clear intercourse was envisaged by Benit "and also that the girl was reluctant for this to happen" Benit's defence barrister said his client had had a difficult upbringing. The judge told Benit he had targeted the 15-year-old, who was vulnerable to the sort of attention he was giving her. He said: "You saw her as someone you could take to your hotel bedroom for the purpose of sexual intercourse either with or without her consent." Benit must register as a sex offender for the rest of his life. Det Insp Kelly Isaacs, of North Wales Police's sexual offences team, said: "Benit preyed upon a 15-year-old child who was vulnerable because of her age. "He had also lied to her about his age and intentions."
US authorities have arrested two men in California for hacking email accounts and stealing nude photos to post on a so-called "revenge porn" website. Hunter Moore, 27, and Charles Evens, 24, face charges including conspiracy, unauthorized access to a protected computer to obtain information and aggravated identity theft. The men reportedly posted explicit images, submitted without the victim's permission, to IsAnyoneUp.com. If guilty, they face decades in prison. The arrest on Thursday was the culmination of an FBI investigation into the matter, US Attorney Wendy Wu said in a statement. According to court documents, Mr Moore operated a website which posted sexually explicit images for the purposes of revenge. Mr Moore is said to have paid Mr Evens to hack into hundreds of victims' email accounts to obtain more nude photos to post on the website. The illegally obtained photos were then put online without the consent of those pictured. It is the latest legal setback for Mr Moore, who was ordered in March to pay $250,000 (£170,000) in damages for defamation resulting from a civil lawsuit. Mr Moore was found to have used Twitter to make false claims about the chief executive of an anti-bullying website, James McGibney. James McGibney alleged Mr Moore had labelled him a paedophile who possessed child pornography. Mr McGibney's website Bullyville.com had purchased the domain, IsAnyoneUp.com, from Mr Moore in 2012.
A convicted paedophile from Somerset who continued to abuse children even while under supervision has been given a "last chance" to avoid jail. Callum Evans, 21, who had pleaded guilty to 40 child-related sex charges, was told by a Bristol Crown Court judge that he was close to a prison sentence. But Judge Graham Hume Jones said he wanted to ensure Evans was kept under supervision for as long as possible. He has been placed under a community order for three years. The order includes Evans being placed on an overnight tagged curfew, made the subject of a Sexual Offences Prevention Order indefinitely and banned from contacting children via social network sites. He must also keep his browsing history and allow the police to inspect his computer. The judge warned him that if he breached his order he would be back before the court and "the only course" would be a prison sentence. Among the 40 charges Evans, of The Glebe in Queen Camel, near Yeovil, had previously pleaded guilty to are inciting a child to engage in sexual activity, making indecent photographs of a child and inciting a child to engage in prostitution or pornography Six further charges relating to child sex offences were ordered to lie on file. Evans was already on a three-year community order, after being spared prison in 2011 having admitted a string of sex charges. Bristol Crown Court heard that he had breached that order within weeks by using a computer and mobile phone to contact teenagers, requesting pictures and meetings. He was arrested again in September 2012 and last year Judge Hume Jones deferred sentencing so he could complete a sex offenders programme. Defence lawyer Patrick Mason said he was "very much on the path to full rehabilitation" and was looking for employment.
A paedophile ring that streamed live child abuse from the Philippines over the internet has been broken up after an operation by UK police and their counterparts in Australia and the US. The National Crime Agency says 17 Britons have been arrested in Operation Endeavour, which spanned 14 countries. Three other inquiries into men who pay to see abuse via webcams are under way, with 139 Britons among 733 suspects. The NCA say it is an "emerging threat", particularly in developing countries. It said: "Extreme poverty, the increasing availability of high-speed internet and the existence of a vast and comparatively wealthy overseas customer base has led to organised crime groups exploiting children for financial gain." The Philippines investigation, which began in 2012, saw British officers work alongside the Australian Federal Police and US Immigration and Customs Enforcement. Five of the 17 UK suspects arrested have been convicted; one will face no further action, and two are dead. Nine more are still being investigated. Operation Endeavour has also resulted in 29 arrests in other countries, including 11 people suspected of facilitating the abuse in the Philippines. Suspects have been identified in Australia, the US, France, Germany, Canada, Hong Kong, the Netherlands, Sweden, Norway, Taiwan, Denmark and Switzerland. In the Philippines, some 15 children aged six to 15 were rescued after being identified as victims. Payments by customers totalling more than £37,500 were uncovered by the investigation, with relatives getting paid for abuse of the children in some instances. The investigation began in 2012 after Northamptonshire Police carried out a routine visit at the Kettering home of registered sex offender Timothy Ford, where they found a number of indecent videos on computers and a collection of DVDs recorded from webcams.
April Jones's killer Mark Bridger has dropped his application for permission to appeal against his whole-life term. The Judicial Office confirmed that Bridger, 47, had abandoned his attempt 11 days before a hearing was due to take place. Bridger was convicted of murdering five-year-old April, from Machynlleth, Powys, last May. The schoolgirl went missing from outside her home on 1 October 2012. Her body has never been found. April's family have been informed of the decision. Her grandfather Dai Smith said the news was a "weight off our minds". He told BBC News: "I don't think he should have been allowed to appeal. He's done an horrific crime and he should spend the rest of his life in the prison. "That's it as far as I'm concerned. He should never be let out." "It's a big relief to Paul and Coral and the whole family." Mr Smith added he had "no doubts" about the validity of whole-life tariffs. The hearing had been due at the Court of Appeal in London on 24 January. Bridger took April from outside her home in a sexually-motivated attack before murdering her and disposing of her body. Blood and fragments of bone consistent with a young human skull were found at his home. Child sex abuse images were found on his laptop, along with images of children from the area. Bridger had claimed he had run over April in his car and could not remember where he disposed of her body. His trial at Mold Crown Court lasted five weeks. When sentencing Bridger, Mr Justice Griffith Williams said: "There is no doubt in my mind that you are a paedophile, who has for some time harboured sexual and morbid fantasies about young girls." Police believe Bridger dismembered April and dumped her body parts at locations in the hills, rivers and forests surrounding his home in Ceinws near Machynlleth. Fewer than 50 other people in the UK have whole-life terms. They include the Moors murderer Ian Brady, who killed five children along with his accomplice Myra Hindley.
A former scout leader has admitted to 49 sexual offences against 11 young victims. David Sewell, 37, of Valley Road, Grantham, pleaded guilty to the charges which included rape and sexual assault on nine boys aged between seven and 15. Judge Michael Heath at Lincoln Crown Court described his crimes as an "appalling litany of sexual assaults on young boys". He sentenced Sewell to 18 years in prison. The court heard Sewell met some of his victims through the scout movement. The offences were carried out between 2004 and his arrest this year when a victim came forward. The charges Sewell faced were of engaging in sexual activity in the presence of a child under 13, two counts of sexual assault of a boy by touching, two counts of causing a child under 13 to watch or look at images of sexual activity, two counts of raping a boy under 13 and one count of voyeurism. During sentencing, Judge Heath said "For your sexual gratification, you systematically and gratuitously abused no fewer than 11 boys in a sordid and disturbing manner. "You met those boys in your capacity as a scout master of long standing. Their parents trusted you with their sons and you gravely breached their trust. "Across the length and breadth of this country, there are men and women of impeccable character who will be appalled at your behaviour and will feel terribly let down and worried that what you did will somehow reflect on and besmirch their good names." Det Supt Rik Hatton, from Lincolnshire Police, commended the first victim for coming forward and said the abuse had had a "horrific effect" on the victims and their families. "It was really brave of that victim to come forward and tell us his experiences," he said. "From that our investigative team were able to piece together a pattern of his [Sewell's] offending history. "It is quite clear that Sewell is a really dangerous predatory paedophile and the way paedophiles work is in grooming their victims, getting them into a position of trust and allowing themselves access to them." The Scout Association said Sewell had been subject to a CRB check before starting but he had not been charged with any offences at the time. A spokesman said members "condemned the actions of Sewell" and were pleased he had been "suitably punished"
A senior teacher who had 6,600 child abuse images on his computer was caught by an undercover detective who posed as a paedophile, a court has heard. Peter Webber, 51, resigned as head of science at Colyton Grammar School in Devon after he swapped fantasies in a chat room with the undercover officer. Webber, from Lincoln Close, Exmouth, admitted 15 charges of making and two of distributing indecent images. He was sentenced to six months in jail, suspended for two years. Colyton Grammar School said the offences did not relate to the school or anyone in its community and that members of staff were still shocked. Exeter Crown Court heard that Webber was found after he entered a chat room discussion with an undercover officer. Janice Eagles, prosecuting, said: "The officer asked whether he would act on his fantasies in relation to having sexual activity with a 12-year-old girl and he indicated he would." Officers found 6,687 images, which included 262 showing children having sex with adults and 35 in the most serious category, which showed torture, sadism or bestiality. Judge Phillip Wassall said he had spared Webber jail because he had acknowledged his addiction to pornography and had already started working with the charity, the Lucy Faithfull Foundation, to overcome it. He ordered Webber to attend a sex offenders' treatment programme.
A paedophile was found to have downloaded more than 30 hours of disturbing footage of child sex abuse. Andrew Forbes, 36, of Logiealmond, was caught after police received confidential information about the nature of the material on his laptop. Perth Sheriff Court heard that 212 video files of abuse were found, with the majority featuring the worst kind of sado-masochistic abuse. Forbes was placed on the sex offenders register. He will be sentenced later. He admitted two charges relating to child pornography between 23 March and 3 October last year. Fiscal depute John Malpass told the court that confidential intelligence had been received about child porn being downloaded by Forbes. He said Forbes' Dell laptop was examined and found to have one active user profile in the name "Andy" and within this were three folders of illicit material. The prosecutor said 92 of the files found were at level five - the most serious level of abuse, 79 were level four, 19 were level three, eight were level two and four were in the lowest category, level one. "They were found to be of children - predominantly boys - from infant age to approximately 16." He added: "The video files had a combined running time of one day, six hours and 56 minutes." Mr Malpass told the court. Forbes was interviewed by police and admitted downloading the material. Sentence on Forbes, whose address was given as Cottarton Cottage, Logiealmond, was deferred for background reports.
A charity that helped to break up a paedophile ring has said it could be forced to close because of funding cuts. Safe and Sound alerted Derby authorities to the "evil" sex gang, whose ringleaders were jailed in 2011. Derby City Council is "reviewing" the £84,000 it gives the charity each year - about a sixth of its £500,000 budget. The council said it was facing "an unprecedented level of cuts" to its own budget, imposed by central government. Derbyshire Police said the charity's work was "vital". Chief Constable Mick Creedon said: "Without their support I have no doubt that several offenders would have continued to exploit and abuse young girls in the city of Derby. "I see such importance in their work that I have made them my chosen charity and I support them in whatever ways I can." The charity, set up in 2002, is based in Derby but works with children and young people across the UK. As well as working with existing victims of sex crime, Safe and Sound Derby works to prevent young men and women from becoming victims. Nicola Dalby, chief executive of Safe and Sound Derby, said the loss of funding would "directly, instantly affect how we can support children and young people and what we do with them". "Then the other thing it will do is it will undermine our position in terms of attracting funding and investment into the city," she added. Derby City Council's consultation on a wide range of budget cuts ends on 16 December. A spokesperson said: "We would not be considering these cuts were it not for the drastic cuts in government grants. "We value the tremendous work done by Safe and Sound and are currently meeting with them to decide our joint priorities moving forward. "We will need to wait for the results of the consultation on the proposals and our discussions with Safe and Sound before we are able to decide the next steps."
A sex predator who used his ice cream van to lure young boys in West Lothian and Lanarkshire before abusing them has been jailed for seven years. A judge told Billy McGill, 51, the offences during his 24 years of depravity had been carefully planned. He was convicted of a total of eight charges of indecency, indecent assault attempted sodomy and sodomy dating back to 1988. His five victims were between nine and 14 years old. Earlier at the High Court in Edinburgh, judge Lady Scott told McGill: "The nature of these offences and the degree of planning and the gross breach of trust involved suggests you pose a serious risk to boys and young men."
McGill, from Longridge, West Lothian, had denied the offences, claiming he was the victim of an internet smear by a rival ice cream seller. His trial heard how police ordered accusers to stop posting messages about him on social networking site Facebook and warned McGill for his safety, but weeks later arrested him. Defence QC Mark Stewart said McGill had learning difficulties and depression and had contemplated suicide since the guilty verdicts. The trial heard how school children who came to work for the family ice cream business were encouraged to sleep over at his caravan near Climpy Road, Forth, Lanarkshire, where he parked his ice cream van. He also operated from an industrial estate at Addiewell, in West Lothian, and had a caravan there. The pretext was they had to visit a cash and carry early the following morning. However, McGill would give them vodka and carry out a catalogue of abuse. Four of his five victims were given alcohol. Last month the jury unanimously convicted McGill of six sex offences and found him guilty of another two by majority verdicts. McGill's name was added to the sex offenders' register for life and Lady Scott made an order keeping him under strict supervision for three years after the end of his prison term.
A police officer had sex with a 14-year-old girl after texting her to say he could be jailed if their affair was discovered, a court has heard. Stafford Crown Court heard Christopher Semak, 33, from Kings Norton in Birmingham, exchanged hundreds of text messages with the schoolgirl. The jury was told he was arrested after the teenager confided in a teacher. The married officer denies five counts of engaging in sexual activity with a child from April 2010 to November 2011. Mr Semak was suspended by the West Midlands force in April 2012. The offences were alleged to have taken place while he was off duty. Prosecutor David Jackson told the court one of the texts Mr Semak had sent the girl allegedly read: "If we did things and it got out I could lose my job. I could even go to prison because you are 14. "It would make me as bad as the people I am trying to stop. It would make me as bad as a paedophile." The jury was told numerous "sexually explicit" texts were found on the girl's phone by her parents, who confronted Mr Semak but did not contact the police. Mr Jackson told the court: "It was obvious to them [the girl's parents] that, in their minds, sexual activity was taking place between the two people exchanging the messages and that sexual activity had already taken place." The jury heard the alleged victim had told her parents she had been in a mutual relationship with Mr Semak and did not want the police to be contacted. Child protection officials and the police became involved after the girl spoke to a teacher at her school, the court was told. Mr Jackson said it was Mr Semak's case that his victim had "invented" her account and then blackmailed him. He said after the officer was arrested in January 2012 he gave detectives a prepared statement claiming the girl had threatened to "falsely inform" the police that they had had sex. The jury heard Mr Semak claimed he had "stupidly" responded to her texts because he "feared she would make a false allegation if I did not respond in this way". The trial continues.
Toronto Mayor Rob Ford has apologised for implying during a recent television interview that a Canadian journalist was a paedophile. Mr Ford had said he caught Toronto Star reporter Daniel Dale peering over his fence in May 2012. Mr Dale said he was investigating property Mr Ford reportedly intended to purchase at the time. The reporter pursued a libel lawsuit against the mayor for defamation. On Tuesday, Mr Ford issued a public apology to Mr Dale, currently the Toronto Star's acting city hall bureau chief. "I did not mean to insinuate anything about Mr Dale personally in my interview," he said in front of Toronto's city council. "I certainly did not intend to suggest that he is a paedophile," he added. "I do not believe Mr Dale is a paedophile." Mr Ford later blamed the news media for ascribing to him that specific word, which he "did not say". In an interview last week with British-Canadian former media baron Conrad Black, Mr Ford said he had confronted Mr Dale near his home in 2012. "I have little kids. When a guy's taking pictures of little kids, I don't want to say the word, but you start thinking, you know, what's this guy all about?" he said during the interview. Mr Dale subsequently served Mr Ford with a notice of a libel lawsuit for what he described as "vile" and "defamatory" comments. On Tuesday, Mr Ford clarified that he never personally witnessed Mr Dale "peering" into his yard. "My neighbour told me, however, that he did see someone doing this," he said. "Mr Dale apparently denies that. At that moment... I honestly believed my neighbour's account of the event." An earlier police investigation cleared Mr Dale of any wrongdoing. Following Mr Ford's public apology, Toronto City Councillor Shelley Carroll called the mayor "insincere". "He's an expert at non-apologies. He's been doing it for years," she said. "You'll never get an admission of guilt from Mayor Ford. It's not his style and it hasn't been since birth." It is the latest public misstep for Mr Ford, who has been stripped of most of his mayoral powers after admitting he had smoked crack cocaine and purchased illegal drugs while in office.
A paedophile who directed filmed rapes of young children live on the internet has been jailed for 14 years. Michael Eller, 67, set up a Skype link from his Hertfordshire home to instruct adults in the Philippines to rape and abuse young girls. Others paid to watch the broadcasts, St Albans Crown Court heard. Judge John Plumstead said victims "will spend their whole lives knowing that, for the pleasure of grubby paedophiles, they have undergone abuse". He added: "The cold-hearted cruelty of it is beyond comprehension." Eller, of the Hilltop Estate, in Berkhamsted, pleaded guilty to five charges of arranging sex offences involving children from three years old to their early teens. The grandfather also admitted possessing indecent photographs of a child and breaching a sexual offences prevention order. Judge Plumstead said Eller, a married man, had shown no sign of remorse and had failed to understand the gravity of his crimes. "How any sane human being can direct the rape of children without being overcome with disgust is beyond me," said the judge. The court heard how the retired financial director paid the adults about $30 (£18) to rape and abuse the children. He would type out instructions on what he wanted them to do while his unsuspecting wife was elsewhere in the house. Eller was already the subject of a sex offender prevention order following an August 2012 case where he pleaded guilty to five counts involving indecent images of children. He had to register as a sex offender for five years. In February, police installed software on his computer to monitor his use.
The trial of a man accused of abducting and raping three six-year-old girls in Morocco has been adjourned. Robert Bill, originally from St Asaph, Denbighshire, was arrested in the port town of Tetouan in June last year after residents allegedly heard a girl screaming in a car. The 59-year-old is also accused of an attack on another child in Tetouan and another alleged victim in the nearby town of Chefchaouen. The trial will resume on 11 February. Bill was detained in June 2013 after residents surrounded his Spanish-registered car and notified police. The girl he allegedly abducted, who was from a family in Tetouan, managed to escape, it has been reported. Bill was alleged to have raped another young the girl in Chefchaouen several days earlier. He was a resident in the town of Ceuta, a Spanish enclave in northern Morocco, and a police arrest warrant had been issued in Madrid for paedophilia and kidnapping, according to reports. Bill is also wanted by the Spanish authorities for the attempted abduction of a 12 year-old child at Velez Malaga in 2011. The former teacher who later ran a business as a playground designer, has previously been jailed in the UK for child sex offences and has been described by a judge as a "sexual predator". In March 2009 he was jailed for six years at Caernarfon Crown Court for the attempted abduction of a five year-old girl in Holywell, Flintshire, in 2007. He later appealed and after pleading guilty before a retrial, was then sentenced to a two year prison term at Chester Crown Court in 2010. He had also admitted breaching a Sexual Offences Prevention Order. After leaving prison, Bill travelled to Spain and was working as an estate agent when police in Malaga issued a warrant for his arrest.
A paedophile who admitted attempting to rape an 11-month-old baby girl while filming the attack has been jailed for 10 years.James Reekie, 28, from Glenrothes, was caught after police seized a computer he used to download indecent images of children. The sex attack on the baby took place while she was alone and was downloaded onto his phone. Reekie was a guest of the child's parents at the time of the attack. At the High Court in Glasgow judge Lord Pentland ordered Reekie to be monitored in the community for five years after his release from prison. Lord Pentland told Reekie: "You have a deviant interest in young children." He added: "You progressed to sexually abusing an 11-month-old girl in a depraved and revolting manner. "The child was alone in a room of the house where you were a guest. This was a grievous breach of trust and shows a degree of deviousness and planning by you." Defence solicitor advocate Chris Fyffe said: "Mr Reekie wishes to extend apologies to al those affected. He is angry at himself. He is deeply ashamed. "This is an individual who accepts that he needs help and he needs to change." The police traced the baby from the one-minute, four-second film and told her family. She was taken to hospital but found to be uninjured. Reekie admitted sexually assaulting the baby, an offence which counts as attempted rape under new laws. The 28-year-old also pled guilty to making indecent images of children. The computer in Reekie's bedroom contained 215 indecent photos and 138 videos of children. Prosecutor Richard Goddard said the images were found after police were tipped off that someone from the home Reekie shared with his parents was looking at indecent images. Reekie, who worked as a cleaner at a high school in Fife, was placed on the sex offenders' register.
More than 700 paedophiles have been identified since the introduction of "Sarah's Law" in 2011, Freedom of Information requests have revealed. Nearly 5,000 requests for information were made in England, Scotland and Wales; one in seven resulted in a paedophile being revealed. The disclosure scheme was named after eight-year-old victim Sarah Payne. It means a parent or guardian can ask police if a person who has contact with children is a child sex offender. "There must be sufficient access to or connection with the child by the subject to pose a real risk of harm and therefore justify disclosure," say the rules governing the scheme. Some 4,754 applications have been made since the system was introduced two-and-a-half years ago but the number is falling. There were 1,944 in 2011-12 and 1,106 so far in 2013-14, while disclosures were 281 in the first year and 122 in current year to April. Child safety campaigners said they were concerned that the disclosure rate was too low, suggesting that many offenders were not on police records. In England and Wales, Avon and Somerset Police revealed the highest number of paedophiles at 42. This was followed by followed by 39 in Devon and Cornwall, 36 in Thames Valley and 33 in Norfolk. The identities of 49 child sex offenders were released by police forces in Scotland. Donald Findlater, director of research and development at child protection charity the Lucy Faithfull Foundation, said: "Given the apparent drop in applications since the start of the scheme, albeit small, we have some concern that people may not know the scheme is available to them. "We would like to see continued public awareness and publicity, whether by local forces or nationally by the Home Office, so that people know that this means of checking someone out exists." The scheme was introduced following the campaigning of Sara Payne, the mother of Sarah. Her daughter was was found in a field near Pulborough, West Sussex, after she was killed by Roy Whiting in July 2000. Under Sarah's Law, police will reveal details confidentially if they think it is in the child's interests.
Peaches Geldof could face a criminal investigation after naming on Twitter two women who let their babies be abused by singer Ian Watkins. Lostprophets frontman, Watkins, 36, from Pontypridd, admitted the attempted rape of a baby on Tuesday. Publishing details which might identify the babies is a criminal offence, the Attorney General's Office said. South Wales Police said it was discussing the issue with the Crown Prosecution Service. Peaches Geldof, who is the daughter of Band Aid founder Bob Geldof and late TV presenter Paula Yates, is understood to have tweeted the women's names to her 160,000 followers after reportedly reading them on a US-based website. It is understood the tweet was subsequently deleted Watkins was described as a "determined and committed paedophile" after he pleaded guilty to two counts of attempted rape and 12 other offences including sexual assault and taking, making and distributing indecent images of children. A spokeswoman for the Attorney General's Office said: "We understand that the names of the co-defendants in the Ian Watkins case were posted online but have now been removed. "As has been previously reported, the co-defendants were the mothers of the victims. "Victims of sexual offences have automatic lifetime anonymity and the publication of names or information which can lead to their being identified is a criminal offence. This is a police matter."
One of Britain's most wanted criminals, a paedophile who fled to Spain, has had a year added to his sentence. Michael McCartney, 78, from Letchworth in Hertfordshire, was convicted of 11 sexual offences in March and jailed for eight years. He was arrested in Alicante on 14 November and extradited on the orders of a Spanish high court judge. A judge at Cambridge Crown Court sentenced him to a further 12 months imprisonment. McCartney was arrested after the National Crime Agency released a list of 13 men it wanted to trace. He had been convicted at Cambridge Crown Court of nine counts of indecent assault against three boys under the age of 16 in Letchworth between 1989 and 2006. He was also convicted of one offence of gross indecency and one of sexual activity with a child. He was due to be sentenced in April but failed to attend at Cambridge Crown Court. The offences involved him grooming young boys, buying things their parents could not afford and gaining their trust before assaulting them, the court was told during his trial.
A paedophile who evaded justice for 30 years has been jailed after his victim found he had been chosen to run in the London 2012 Olympic torch relay and reported him to police again. Graham Cooper, of New Romney, Kent, admitted indecent assault on a girl under 14 and indecency with a child. The 69-year-old was jailed for three years at Canterbury Crown Court. He had been selected to take part in the Kent leg of the torch relay because of his charity work in Aldington. A previous complaint by Cooper's victim was not pursued by police but the court heard she was incensed at seeing him in the torch relay, contacted officers again and the retired butcher was charged. She had suffered sex attacks as a girl between the ages of 10 and 13 in the early 1980s. Cooper admitted two counts of indecent assault on a girl aged under 14 and one count of indecency with a child but denied other charges, which went to trial last month. A jury convicted him of indecent assault but cleared him of an alleged rape and two more indecent assaults. Jailing him, Judge Adele Williams said the abuse Cooper committed had a "profound and long-lasting" impact on his victim, who had undergone counselling and therapy. She said he had a "total lack of insight" for what he had done. Cooper was made the subject of a sexual offences prevention order and told to sign the sex offenders' register, both for 10 years. Defence counsel Peter Alcock had asked the judge to take account of Cooper's age, the historic nature of the offences and his health problems, adding that serving an immediate jail term would be "more onerous" for him than 30 years ago. He said Cooper had "lived a life with many positives" and good character references had been provided by figures including his vicar.
A Spanish court has ruled against the extradition to Morocco of a convicted paedophile who was mistakenly pardoned by the Moroccan king. Spain's National Court said treaties did not allow for the extradition of a Spanish national, and he would serve the rest of his 30-year term in Spain. Daniel Galvan Vina was convicted of raping 11 children in Morocco in 2011. His pardon by King Mohammed VI in July provoked a public outcry, and the pardon was revoked. Galvan travelled to Spain following his pardon, where he was re-arrested. Galvan, who was born in Iraq, was among 48 Spaniards freed by royal pardon to mark the visit of Spain's king to Morocco.
One of Britain's most wanted criminals, on the run in Spain, is being sent back to the UK, Spanish police confirmed. Paedophile Michael McCartney, 78, from Letchworth, Hertfordshire, was convicted of sexual offences in March but failed to appear for sentencing. He was arrested in an Alicante apartment on Thursday, hours after the National Crime Agency released a list of 13 men it wanted to trace. On Saturday, a Spanish high court judge in Madrid ordered him to be extradited. McCartney was found guilty of nine counts of indecent assault against three boys under the age of 16 in Letchworth between 1989 and 2006. He was also convicted of one offence of gross indecency with a child and one offence of sexual activity with a child. The offences involved him grooming the boys, buying things their parents could not afford and gaining their trust before performing sexual acts on them, police said. He was due to be sentenced in April but failed to attend at Cambridge Crown Court. In his absence, he was sentenced to eight years in prison. He is expected to be back in the UK by the end of the week. Last Wednesday, the National Crime Agency listed 13 of Britain's most-wanted criminals, thought to be on the run in Spain. The list was released as part of Operation Captura, aimed at tracing criminals who are in hiding.
A former police officer has spoken about some of his colleagues' attitude to Jimmy Savile in the 1960s - saying that everyone in the force knew "Jimmy liked them young". The ex-officer, who wants to remain anonymous, was with Leeds City Police in the 1960s. He used to patrol areas of the city where Savile was well known. The entertainer was in his 30s at the time and was a familiar sight in the areas of Roundhay and Headingley. It was one incident in 1965 the former policeman remembers well. Late one night, just before midnight, he noticed Jimmy Savile's Rolls Royce parked in a secluded spot on the edge of Roundhay Park. "As I went past I saw the interior lights were on," he said. "I went past but stopped and went back - I thought someone had nicked it. "He was sat in the driver's seat and was talking to a young lady in the passenger seat. She looked like Twiggy - I couldn't tell her age, perhaps 15 or 16. "I said, 'What's the matter, Jimmy - what are you doing up here?' "He said, 'Yeah, we're fine, aren't we?' And she smiled. Then he said, 'We're waiting for 12 o'clock, son.' "Why?" I asked. 'Because it's her birthday tomorrow, she's 16.' And he winked at me. "I asked the girl, 'Are you ok?' "She smiled - there was no impression she was being forced to be there. I think she wanted me to get lost as well. "Jimmy then said, 'Now get back on your bike before you lose your job.'" The officer then went on his way. He said: "If there was any impression that she was 10 or 11 I wouldn't have gone anywhere. There was no doubt whatsoever that she knew what was going to happen. "Savile gave me the impression he was justifying himself and knew what people suspected him of - he was waiting until it was legal. His attitude was, 'I'm not doing it now but in ten minutes there isn't a thing you can do about it.'" Later on in the shift he mentioned the meeting to his sergeant, who said to him: "Was she upset?" When he replied, "No", he claims the senior officer added: "We know Jimmy likes them young, he's got friends in high places."
Prosecutors are to keep a file on a former BBC presenter convicted of child sexual abuse for at least 60 years in case further offences come to light. Ex-BBC Radio Norfolk and Radio Clyde broadcaster Michael Souter, 60, was found guilty on Thursday of 19 sexual assaults on seven boys aged 11 to 16. Norfolk Police said it was pursuing a "live inquiry" into further allegations against him. Officers have identified 595 potential witnesses. Souter was also convicted at Norwich Crown Court of seven counts of making and possessing indecent images of under-18s after a six-week trial. He faced two more charges of possessing indecent images of a child, but was cleared of one and the jury failed to reach a unanimous verdict on the other. He was remanded in custody and will be sentenced on 31 October. The court heard Souter, who carried out his attacks between 1979 and 1999, was a "deviant sexual abuser", particularly attracted to boys in shorts and uniform. After the trial, senior investigating officer Det Insp Paul Brown of Norfolk Police said: "This is one of the worst cases of prolonged child abuse I have ever dealt with." Souter was a Scout leader, a volunteer mentor to young people for Norfolk social services, and was even allowed to adopt a child before his offences came to light. The court heard he had been investigated twice before over sex abuse allegations but the files were lost. He was first arrested in September 1993 but the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) decided there was insufficient evidence to prosecute.
A convicted paedophile has been jailed for four years for making indecent images of children using the internet. Brian Rogers, 54, who lived in Brighton and Eastbourne after he was released from prison in 2011, pleaded guilty to seven charges at Lewes Crown Court. He admitted making indecent images, failing to answer police bail and failing to comply with the requirements of his registered sex offenders order. Sussex Police said the images were not believed to be of local children. Unemployed Rogers, of no fixed address, has served three previous prison sentences for sexual assaults on young children whose families he befriended elsewhere in the UK. Police said Rogers had no connection with Sussex before being released from jail. While supervising him as a sex offender, officers in Brighton discovered he had material which indicated a sexual interest in children. A sexual offence prevention order was obtained restricting his access to children and computers but he failed to answer bail in early 2013. Police believed he could try to befriend families of young girls and boys and his details were circulated to every police force in the UK and beyond via Interpol. A public appeal was also made in August. He was arrested after being spotted sleeping rough by a member of the public in Green Park, central London.
A paedophile policeman who abused boys for more than a decade has been jailed for six-and-a-half years. Danny Bryant committed several of the offences as an official of a police surf life saving club in Devon, Taunton Crown Court heard. Bryant, 65, of Bideford, admitted 10 indecent ­assaults against five boys between 1974 and 1985. The case has been referred to the Independent Police Complaints Commission. Bryant helped run a Surf Life Saving GB club affiliated at Saunton Sands in the 1980s when Russel Dawson said he was abused a number of times. Mr Dawson, who was 14 when the abuse began, has waived his right to anonymity. He told police in a statement that all the members of the club saw Bryant, who was awarded the British Empire Medal in 1985 for his youth work, as a "mentor and our hero". But from 1983, Bryant took advantage of weekends away to abuse Mr Dawson. The abuse continued until 1988 when Mr Dawson heard that Bryant had abused another child not connected with the surf club and reported it to the police.
A sex predator who used his ice cream van to lure young boys in West Lothian and Lanarkshire before abusing them has been found guilty. Billy McGill, 51, from West Lothian, recruited children as "helpers" and got some of them to stay the night. A jury found him guilty of eight sex offence charges involving boys at the High Court in Edinburgh. McGill, of Kirk Brae, Longridge, had denied the offences committed between 1988 and 2002. He claimed he was the victim of an internet smear campaign by a rival ice cream seller. A judge sent him to prison ahead of sentencing next month. Youngsters were encouraged to sleep over at his caravan under the guise of early visits to a cash and carry on the following morning. However, McGill would give them vodka and carry out a catalogue of abuse. Four of his five victims were plied with alcohol. Lady Scott rejected a defence plea that McGill should remain on bail while a background report is prepared on him. The judge said: "You have been convicted by the jury of a serious course of conduct involving sexual abuse of young boys." She told McGill it was inevitable that he faced a substantial prison sentence and called on an assessment to be made of the risk he posed to young children. The court was told that in 1988 McGill stayed at a caravan near Climpy Road, Forth, in Lanarkshire, and would park his ice cream van there. He also operated from an industrial estate at Addiewell, in West Lothian, and had a caravan there. McGill was placed on the sex offenders register.
The judge who jailed prolific paedophile William Goad, who is thought to have abused up to 3,500 boys, believes he did not act alone. Goad, who lived in Plymouth, was jailed by Judge William Taylor in 2004. He died in prison last year aged 68. A new investigation by Devon and Cornwall Police has been launched following a complaint from one of his victims. Goad abused boys over a 35-year period dating back to the 1960s. Judge Taylor told The Herald newspaper: "On a personal note it would offend against common sense to assume that Goad behaved in this way entirely on his own." On Friday, an ex-detective claimed the new investigation linked to Goad could uncover "hundreds" more victims. Ex-detective Shirley Thompson said she believed a paedophile ring linked to Goad could still be active. In 2004, Goad pleaded guilty to 14 specimen counts of serious sexual assault and two counts of indecent assault and was sentenced to life in prison.
A primary school teacher who filmed young boys on a phone as they changed for swimming lessons has been jailed for six months. At Leeds Crown Court, Richard Oldham, 32, pleaded guilty to voyeurism, as well as six counts of sexual assault against two boys. Oldham, now of North Tamerton, Cornwall taught at several primary schools in the York area from 2004 to 2012. The judge, Rodney Jameson QC, told Oldham he had "demons to wrestle with". He told Oldham "I'm confident you're man enough to do it. This is, in the classic sense of the word, a tragedy - that somebody with your ability, and the good in you, was not able to control successfully instincts that led you to commit these offences." He said the six-month jail sentence would be "a very severe punishment" for Oldham, who was described in court as a "gifted teacher". Oldham, who admitted a total of 17 offences relating to making and possessing indecent images of children and voyeurism, was given a sexual offences prevention order and banned from working with children. Speaking after the sentencing hearing, Det Sgt Adam Normanton, from North Yorkshire Police, described Oldham, who had more than 2,000 images of children on his computer, as a "predatory paedophile". He added: "When questioned by the police he dismissed the evidence of the children and tried to distance himself from the catalogue of child images on his computer including the videos he himself had recorded. "He tried to portray himself as the model teacher in fact he was the opposite. He was every parent's worst nightmare and prison is the right place for him." Joe Cocker, from the City of York Council's safeguarding children board, said: "Richard Oldham has betrayed the trust of his pupils, their parents, his colleagues and profession."
A convicted paedophile has lost a legal challenge against rules requiring him to disclose bank details to police. The man, released from jail in 2010, claimed the rules breached his right to a private life and were not necessary. The recently-introduced measures require convicted sex offenders to reveal bank accounts and credit cards. But rejecting the challenge, the High Court said the rules were a "very valuable" practical and proportionate way of monitoring sex offenders. In their judgement, Sir John Thomas and Mr Justice Hickinbottom, said: "We do not consider that the means employed are in any way inappropriate or disproportionate. "They are plainly a practical and proportionate means of providing further protection to prevent other persons becoming potential victims of those on the Sexual Offences Register. "In reaching that judgement we have taken into account the fact that no power is given to access the accounts and that the information provided by an offender will be securely held." Christopher Prothero, of Birmingham, was convicted in 2007 of nine counts of indecent assault and indecency with a child and jailed for four and a half years. After his release in 2010, he struggled to get a job and became self-employed. He told the court that he had complied with all of his licence conditions, such as a requirement to tell the police where he was living. In 2012, following an important Supreme Court ruling, the Home Secretary changed the rules governing the notification scheme. She introduced a right of appeal - but also ordered offenders to hand over bank account details, bringing the system in to line with Scotland. Prothero was among the thousands of convicted offenders required to hand over information. But he challenged the order to hand over details of his two bank accounts, saying that it was an invasion of his privacy and he was concerned the information may get into the wrong hands or be used by the authorities for another purpose. Dismissing the challenge, the judges said that neither the police nor other agencies who had access to the records could use it to find out how the claimant was spending his money. They would need a court order to get that detailed information. They added, though, that the experience of Scotland proved that handing over bank details had helped detectives to trace people if they committed further offences. They said: "There can be no doubt about the legitimate policy objective of the regulations - the ability to trace an offender quickly, to guard against the risk of an offender using another identity or to have a means of obtaining quick access to a credit card account to investigate offences in.
A vigilante group which claims to "expose paedophiles" has said it is not to blame for the suicide of a man it confronted. Gary Cleary was found hanged at his Leicestershire home on 13 May - four days after he was arrested by police. The Letzgo Hunting group claims it gathered evidence Mr Cleary was a paedophile after contacting him online and posing as a 14-year-old girl. But police said the 29-year-old had not been charged with any offences. The Leicestershire force would not say what crime Mr Cleary had been arrested on suspicion of, but confirmed he had been interviewed by officers and released on bail. Letzgo Hunting poses as girls under the age of consent and chats to men online, saving the conversations as evidence. The group then arranges to meet the men in public places, and confronts them about their alleged actions while they are filmed. In April, Letzgo Hunting told BBC Radio 5 live's Victoria Derbyshire: "We're not there to hurt anybody." Leicestershire Police and neighbouring Nottinghamshire Police said they were not aware of any cases where the involvement of Letzgo Hunting had led to any offenders being charged. Letzgo Hunting has claimed that its investigation into a Nottingham man, called James Stone, led to him being convicted of sexual offences against a 15-year-old girl. But Nottinghamshire Police said Stone was arrested after the girl's mother contacted them. Letzgo Hunting told the BBC it had recorded online chats with both Gary Cleary and James Stone, and filmed meetings with both men. The online conversations and footage were then given to police, the group said. "All of our evidence is passed to police, otherwise they wouldn't have been arrested," said a spokesperson. Stone has pleaded guilty to grooming, making an indecent image, possessing indecent images, possession of an indecent image with a view to distribution, possession of extreme pornography and two counts of sexual activity with a child. Six of these charges relate to the 15-year-old girl, but none of the charges relates to material gathered by Letzgo Hunting. Stone, 24, who lives in Nottingham city centre, is due to be sentenced at Nottingham Crown Court on Friday.
Two sisters who were raped by a neighbour 40 years ago have said they hope their story will inspire others to speak out. Debbie Grafham was nine and Lorraine Delgiudice was seven when Patrick Ryan started abusing them in 1973. Ryan, now 64, targeted the girls when he lived in the flat above their home in Blackheath, south-east London. He was jailed for 12 years in June. Ms Grafham, from Eastbourne, said she had stayed quiet for too long. The judge described the experience of the sisters as harrowing and said they should be congratulated for turning their lives around. In late 2011 and early 2012 the sisters - who have waived their right to anonymity - disclosed what Ryan had done to them. Ms Grafham said: "It was absolute hell. He basically promised me that if I would let him abuse me he wouldn't touch my sister again. "And he lied because I caught him time and time again." She added: "We'd stayed quiet for too long and once it was out in the open I just wanted justice done. "I didn't want to be scared or it to be a secret any more." Ms Delgiudice said: "He's been punished now, it's a relief to me. "I don't have to carry that around with me any more." Pete Saunders, from the National Association of People Abused in Childhood, said: "It sends out a very clear message to society that survivors of abuse do not forget what's happened to them and abusers will need to think twice in future. "And I think that's the real power of what's happening at the moment with so many survivors coming forward." Det Ch Insp Pete Thomas, from the Metropolitan Police, said: "The ordeal these two women went through as young children was horrific and traumatising. "To come forward after so long must have taken extreme courage and their determination to see justice has resulted in Ryan's conviction. "Ryan is a convicted paedophile who will now be monitored for the rest of his life as a registered sex offender." Ryan, from Plumstead in south-east London, was convicted in April at Woolwich Crown Court of four counts of rape, two of attempted rape and seven of indecent assault.
A prominent Roman Catholic priest in Argentina has been jailed, four years after being convicted of sexually abusing a teenage boy. A court in Buenos Aires province rejected an appeal by Father Julio Cesar Grassi, who has been sentenced to 15 years in jail, to remain under house arrest. He was convicted in 2009 of abusing the boy at his "Happy Children" foundation. He insists he is innocent and says the case is based on false evidence. "In my life, all I have done was to help the children in need," he said at the criminal court in the city of Moron. "The prosecutors have lied and set up a case against me." Prosecutor Alejandro Varela argued that there was a risk that the priest would escape if he was not detained. Three courts in Argentina had already confirmed his 2009 conviction, before the Supreme Court of Buenos Aires province ratified the 15-year prison sentence last week. "To leave Grassi free is almost like colluding with his crime," said Mr Varela. After a hearing which ended with an emotional plea by Father Grassi, the criminal court in Moron unanimously ordered his "immediate detention". He was taken to a nearby jail. "I am in peace, I believe in God," Father Grassi said. A lawyer for the prosecution, Juan Pablo Gallego, described him as "a convicted paedophile, who is out of control".
A paedophile given a suspended prison term after his victim was described as "predatory" has had his sentence changed and been jailed for two years by the Court of Appeal. Neil Wilson admitted sexual activity with a 13-year-old girl at his former London home and making indecent images. Appeal judges ruled the 12-month suspended term was "unduly lenient". Wilson, 40, now of York, was not in court but later surrendered to police as he had been ordered to. A spokesman for North Yorkshire police said he had "surrendered to police custody" before 18:00 BST - the deadline set by the court. A row broke out shortly after the original case was heard at London's Snaresbrook Court in August when it emerged that prosecuting barrister Robert Colover had labelled the young girl "predatory" and "sexually experienced". Mr Colover was suspended from handling sexual offence cases as a result of his comments. The Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) described the language as "inappropriate" and later announced that Mr Colover had agreed to resign from from the CPS panel of advocates and will no longer undertake prosecutions involving serious sexual offences or child abuse. A number of complaints about remarks made during sentencing by Judge Nigel Peters, who said he was taking into account how the girl looked and behaved, are being "considered" by the Judicial Conduct and Investigations Office. Attorney General Dominic Grieve referred the original sentence to the Court of Appeal. The Lord Chief Justice Lord Thomas and two other judges quashed the suspended sentence and ordered Wilson, formerly of Romford in east London, to surrender to police. He said there were "no circumstances whatsoever" that justified departure from the principle that normally an immediate prison sentence should be imposed in such a case. "To reduce punishment on the basis that a person who needed protection was encouraging the commission of an offence is simply wrong." Lord Thomas added: "There were other aggravating factors to this case. First of all the offender must have known, as the judge said, that she was under 16. By his plea he accepted that. "He must have appreciated her vulnerability. The offender plainly preyed on her vulnerability."
Two men who pleaded guilty to more than 50 "appalling" child sex offences will not face trial over 14 other allegations, prosecutors have said. Anthony Marsh, who is HIV positive, and Lee Davis, both from South Yorkshire, admitted abusing boys as young as 13. Police said all of the boys tested negative for HIV, but said there could be more victims who have not yet been traced. Marsh, 53, and Davis, 39, will be sentenced on 2 December. Last month Marsh, of Menson Drive, Hatfield, and Davis, of Rowena Road, Conisbrough, appeared at Sheffield Crown Court where they pleaded guilty to a string of offences. Marsh, also known as Tony Taylor and Tony Smith, admitted 34 charges, including having sexual activity with a child and possessing and distributing indecent images of children. Davis, also known as James Parkin, pleaded guilty to 20 charges, including rape, sexual activity with a child, and taking indecent photographs of a child. Both admitted a joint charge of conspiracy to commit sexual activity with children. The Crown Prosecution Service said a trial on the additional charges was not in the victims' "best interests" and asked for the charges to lie on file. The offences, which date back to 2005, involved boys aged between 13 and 17 years old, from South Yorkshire, East Yorkshire, the North East, North West and the Midlands. Det Insp Delphine Waring, of South Yorkshire Police, said: "Marsh and Davis committed many appalling crimes against young, vulnerable boys over many years. "They've been contacting people online, either on gay websites or social networking sites such as Facebook, Bebo or BBM messaging, things like that. "I've obviously made every effort to prioritise identifying any possible child victims but because of the scale of the offending, clearly there will be some young boys out there that unfortunately we haven't as yet been able to identify. "If there are any young boys who have been offended against by these two I would urge them to come forward." Ms Waring said they were not acting as part of a larger paedophile ring. District Senior Crown Prosecutor Chris Hartley said Marsh and Davis both faced possible life sentences. "We've spoken to the remaining victims and explained the current position. We've listened to their views and found that a trial for these offences would not be in their best interest. They have agreed with our decision. "As both of the men pleaded guilty to conspiracy to share the details of the victims, and Davis also pleaded guilty to rape, the judge has the option to sentence both of them to a maximum of life imprisonment."
A man described as a "predatory and sadistic paedophile" has been jailed for a life-threatening sexual assault on a young girl. Christopher Atkins left the girl with severe internal injuries, 18 external bruises and scalding. Judge Michael Stokes QC said the 31-year-old's offending was "almost beyond comprehension". Atkins, of Westway, Cotgrave, Nottinghamshire, was given sentences totalling 17-and-a-half years. He was found guilty of sexual assault and a separate child cruelty charge. A 25-year-old woman, who cannot be named for legal reasons, pleaded guilty to a child cruelty charge and was given a 12-month sentence, suspended for a year. Speaking outside court, the girl's natural father - who also cannot be identified - said he tried to warn the authorities. "Social services have been disgusting all the way through this," he said. "They haven't listened to a word I've said all the way through - I asked them to check him and they didn't bother." A serious case review has been commissioned which will examine the involvement of social services and other agencies in the case. The girl was under the age of five when the offences happened. Judge Stokes told Atkins: "The child in this case was a vulnerable, innocent little girl when you committed an offence of unspeakable cruelty and perversion, an offence which all right-minded people would regard as repellent. "You are in my judgment a predatory and sadistic paedophile and unless whatever issues you have are addressed you will present a serious risk of causing harm to other children." His abuse of the girl, which happened in 2011, was discovered when she was taken to hospital. However, Judge Stokes said he had "no doubt" that Atkins would have been "content for the grievously injured child to go without medical attention of any kind". "How any human being could do this to a little girl is almost beyond comprehension, but the fact is you did," he added. The serious case review has been commissioned by Nottinghamshire Safeguarding Children Board, which oversees how various organisations protect children. The board's chairman, Chris Few, said the review would "examine all aspects of the various agencies involvement with this case and identify if any changes need to be made to ensure that all children in Nottinghamshire are kept as safe as they can be". It is expected to be completed in February.
A man from Cheltenham has been jailed for 16 months after tricking a teenage girl into sending him indecent pictures of herself. Ben Kesterton, 35, pretended to be a 20-year-old woman on Facebook to start a relationship with the girl, who sent him pictures when she was aged 15. Gloucester Crown Court heard Kesterton threatened to distribute the images when she called off the relationship. The girl tried to commit suicide after she learned the truth, the court heard. Recorder Ben Browne QC described the offending as "sophisticated" and told Kesterton his crimes were so serious that only an immediate custodial sentence was justified. "You engaged in a series of online communications with the girl over a period of 18 months and those communications were of a highly sexualised nature. "What followed I regard as far more serious. "When she became suspicious and stopped communication you engaged in a campaign of blackmail, although it is not charged as such, you set out to threaten her into continuing communication with you. "You also made threats to publish them on Facebook and that would reveal to her friends and family the nature of the relationship. "The trauma that such threats would produce would be perfectly obvious to you as they would to any person. The result, that she would attempt suicide, is all your doing." At an earlier hearing Kesterton, of Granville Street in Cheltenham, pleaded guilty to four charges of making indecent photographs of a child and a further three counts of distributing the images. The court was told the victim was aged 13 when she first made contact with Kesterton in 2010. The girl, who is now 17, was at the time questioning her own sexuality and believed Millie Rose was a real person, the court heard. By December 2011 the girl had become suspicious and stopped contact, but Kesterton threatened to publish photographs of her. Prosecutor Julian Kesner said: "The girl was utterly devastated at what happened and she pleaded with the defendant not to publish the photographs." Kesterton was placed on the sex offenders' register for 10 years and given a sexual offences prevention order until further notice.
A child sex offender and former Metropolitan Police Community Support Officer has pleaded guilty to indecently assaulting a five-year-old. In April, Billy Wheatley, 26, from Sidcup, was sentenced to five-and-a-half years in jail for 18 offences, some taking place while he was a PCSO. He was later re-arrested and charged with a further six counts of abuse. Wheatley pleaded guilty to these on Thursday at Woolwich Crown Court and was sentenced to a further six months. His latest victim came forward after seeing publicity on him after he was jailed in April. The assaults took place between 1998 and 2000. Investigating officer Det Sgt Andrew Gattase, from the Met's Paedophile Unit, said: "We were keen to publicise Wheatley's conviction in April because we felt sure there were unidentified victims out there. "The very next day the latest victim came forward and contacted police. "Wheatley is a danger to children and I am pleased we were able to bring more charges against him." The Met said that an extra eight offences would be left to lie on file.
A violent child rapist described as a "monster" by police undoubtedly had more victims, detectives have said. Karl Clay attacked women and children before pouring petrol over them and threatening to set them alight. The 39-year-old, of Wood End, Coventry, was found guilty in July of 13 charges, including the rape of a child under 13 and making threats to kill. Clay's violent attacks spanned almost 20 years and one detective said he was "certain more people had suffered". Det Insp Christopher Hanson from West Midlands Police said: "There are periods of Clay's life we know very little about. "He's a monster guilty of horrendous crimes and I'm certain there are more people who have suffered at his hands." Clay was also convicted of indecent assault of a child, causing a child to engage in sexual activity, harassment, and actual bodily harm. The detective said Clay's offences first came to light when two victims, now teenagers, broke their silence two years ago. "He is a monster and a bully who committed ghastly crimes," he added. "He is a predatory paedophile and I have no doubt that if he had access to a child he would grasp any opportunity to assault them. "He lied persistently in the face of overwhelming evidence and forced his victims to go through the trauma of a trial. "We think Karl Clay had many more victims and if you are one, don't suffer in silence, come forward and we will get justice for you." Mr Hanson said anyone affected should go to a police station or call the police non-emergency number 111. Clay is due to be sentenced on 23 September at Warwickshire Justice Centre in Leamington Spa.
A man who used Facebook and text messages to lure two 14-year-old girls into sexual relationships has been jailed for more than three years. Alexander Barnes-Hines admitted three counts of sexual activity with a child and one of sexual grooming. The 23-year-old from Reading was jailed at the town's crown court. He will serve concurrent sentences of three years and four months for sexual activity with a child and 12 months for sexual grooming. Thames Valley Police praised the victims for giving evidence. Det Con James Kyriacopoulos, from Reading Force CID, said: "These were despicable offences involving underage victims who were contacted via social media and by mobile phone." Barnes-Hines, from Waverley Road, will also be subject to a sexual offences prevention order until further notice. Its terms include no unsupervised contact with girls aged under 16 and prohibit him from owning any device capable of accessing the internet without the capability to retain and display a history of internet use. He will also be prevented from having any contact via the internet with anyone known or believed to be aged under 16.
A sex offender who abused children across Edinburgh and the Lothians over three decades has been jailed for 14 years. Ian Samson, 72, was found guilty of 22 charges of serious sexual offences at an Edinburgh care home in the 70s and other addresses in the 80s and 90s. Samson also raped one girl at the home where he and his wife worked. Detectives uncovered the offences after Samson was convicted of similar crimes in 2010 and made further inquiries. He was employed at the care home as a janitor and his wife as a matron. The court heard that some of his young victims hid in cupboards or in dog baskets in a bid to escape Samson's abuse. At the High Court in Glasgow, judge Lady Scott told him: "You are a prolific, predatory and violent sex offender who poses a danger to all young children. "The sexual violence was prolific and serious and involved many rapes." She said he had taken jobs where he would have contact with children. In later years he would chat to local children and encourage them to go to his home where he supplied them with drink and cigarettes. One of Samson's victims first reported the abuse in 1991, but was not believed. Samson's counsel solicitor advocate Jim Stevenson said: "He continues to maintain his innocence. He has found life lonely and difficult in prison." A Church of Scotland spokeswoman said: "There are no adequate words to convey how horrified we are by the abuse these children suffered. Ian Samson's crimes are truly sickening. "What has emerged in court is deeply shocking. "We take note of the issues raised by the judge and are launching an urgent critical review of this period. "We urge survivors of this abuse to contact any of the staff in our safeguarding service so that we can offer the fullest of support."